Juniper Mist Location Services Guide
Published
2025-12-04
Juniper Networks, Inc.
1133 Innovation Way
Sunnyvale, California 94089
USA
408-745-2000
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc.
in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service
marks are the property of their respective owners.
Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right
to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.
 Juniper Mist Location Services Guide
Copyright © 2025 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved.
The information in this document is current as of the date on the title page.
YEAR 2000 NOTICE
Juniper Networks hardware and software products are Year 2000 compliant. Junos OS has no known time-related
limitations through the year 2038. However, the NTP application is known to have some difficulty in the year 2036.
END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
The Juniper Networks product that is the subject of this technical documentation consists of (or is intended for use
with) Juniper Networks software. Use of such software is subject to the terms and conditions of the End User License
Agreement ("EULA") posted at https://support.juniper.net/support/eula/. By downloading, installing or using such
software, you agree to the terms and conditions of that EULA.
ii
Table of Contents
1 Get Started
Juniper Mist Location Services Overview | 2
Activate Subscriptions | 7
APs for Location Services | 8
AP Placement for Location Services | 9
AP Deployment Assessment | 11
2 BLE Settings
Enable Bluetooth Based Location Services | 21
BLE Beacons | 22
Change the BLE Power Settings for Access Points | 24
Change the BLE and vBLE Power Settings for an AP | 24
Change the Power Settings for Multiple APs as a Batch | 26
BLE Power Settings for Juniper Access Points | 27
3 Floorplan Setup
Floorplan Setup Overview | 30
Deploy Mist with Ease using Wireless Design Tools | 31
Requirements and Considerations | 33
Match APs in the Project Files to Your Physical Mist APs | 34
Export Ekahau Design Files and Import them to Mist | 34
Export Hamina Design Files for Automatic Import to Mist | 35
Automatically Import Mist Floorplans to Hamina | 37
Export iBwave Design Files and Import them to Mist | 37
Add Wayfinding Paths to a Floorplan | 38
iii
Add Walls to Improve Wayfinding | 40
Add Exclusion Zones to Improve Wayfinding | 41
Add Other Items to a Floorplan | 43
Add Third-Party Beacons to a Floorplan | 43
Add Location Zones to a Floorplan | 47
Auto Zone: Add Location Zones to a Floorplan (BETA) | 48
Add Proximity Zones to a Floorplan | 51
Add Virtual Beacons to a Floorplan | 54
Validate Your Floorplan | 57
4 Wayfinding and User Engagement
Wayfinding Use Case | 61
AR and VR Wayfinding Use Case | 63
Hybrid Use Case | 65
Daisy-Chain BT11 APs | 68
Configure Push Notifications for User Engagement | 70
5 Asset Visibility and Room Occupancy
View and Manage BLE Clients | 75
Prerequisites | 75
Find the BLE Clients Page | 76
Filter the Data | 77
Adjust the Columns | 78
Add, Modify, or Remove Assets | 78
Create Named Assets | 79
Select BLE Clients to Name | 79
Use a Filter to Generate a Common Name for Similar Assets | 81
iv
Use a CSV File to Assign Names to Assets | 81
Create Asset Filters | 82
Import Assets | 85
Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags | 86
Rubber Band Model | 87
Find Equipment Use Case | 88
Room Utilization Use Case | 91
Find the Current Location of a Named Asset | 93
6 Analytics
Analytics Overview | 96
MAC Randomization and Location Analytics | 96
7 Location-Based Application Development
Juniper Mist SDK | 100
Webhooks for Location Services | 101
8 Troubleshoot Location Services
Location SLEs | 105
Overview | 105
Location SLE Blocks | 106
Search in Live View | 110
Troubleshoot Location Services Using the RF Environment | 112
Verify and Enable the vBLE Array | 116
Check Your Site's Beam Density Coverage | 117
Troubleshoot the Juniper Mist SDK | 120
Troubleshoot Incorrect Latitude and Longitude (SDK) | 122
Marvis Client and Location Services Integration for Troubleshooting | 126
v
Other Troubleshooting Tips for Location Services | 127
vi
1
CHAPTER
Get Started
IN THIS CHAPTER
Juniper Mist Location Services Overview | 2
Activate Subscriptions | 7
APs for Location Services | 8
AP Placement for Location Services | 9
AP Deployment Assessment | 11
Juniper Mist Location Services Overview
SUMMARY
Get familiar with the major components of locationbased services to understand how Juniper Mist™
ensures location accuracy for wayfinding, asset
visibility, and user engagement.
IN THIS SECTION
How It Works: vBLE Antenna Array | 2
How It Works: Probability Surfaces | 3
How It Works: Indoor Location
Experiences | 4
Use Cases | 5
Wayfinding | 5
Asset Visibility | 6
User Engagement | 6
What's Next? | 7
Virtual Bluetooth LE (vBLE) is a patented technology for indoor Location Services, using virtual beacons
to locate BLE devices with great precision. Juniper Networks access points (APs) use a dynamic 8-
directional antenna array that blankets an area with BLE signals and is capable of both transmitting and
receiving BLE signals.
Virtual beacons are an efficient alternative when compared to physical beacons in terms of time and
cost savings. With virtual beacons, there is no need to install and configure physical beacons, no need
for site surveys, and no need for additional hardware. This makes for simpler, more efficient
deployments and makes adding and moving vBeacons a hassle-free experience, as you configure
everything from the Juniper Mist™ portal.
Video: Location Services with Mist
How It Works: vBLE Antenna Array
Juniper Mist APs transmit BLE signals using an 8-element directional vBLE antenna array.
2
Figure 1: vBLE Antenna Array
Video: Location - How it Works
How It Works: Probability Surfaces
When your customer or visitor uses your Juniper Mist SDK-enabled application, the Juniper Mist cloud
uses probability surfaces to determine the user's location. Probability surfaces provide the best possible
location accuracy with sub-second latency.
The Juniper Mist cloud uses the RF fingerprints sent by the SDK client to create probability surfaces.
This is done by splitting the floorplan up into 1-meter squares and calculating the estimated RF
fingerprints for each square.
Each of the AP’s eight directional beams contribute to the likely location of the client device, examining
all the probability surfaces (one for each beam) and combining them to find the likely point on the map
where the device is located.
In this example, the center of the red area is the peak of the surface and the highest probability of the
client's location. The blue area depicts the lowest area of the surface and the least probability of the
client's location.
3
As the SDK client sends RF fingerprints to the Juniper Mist cloud, Juniper Mist enters the machine
learning process, and the location model is optimized for that device.
How It Works: Indoor Location Experiences
The Juniper Mist SDK provides the tools that you need for building customer-facing applications that
deliver indoor location services. When you integrate the Juniper Mist SDK with Juniper Mist Wi-Fi and
location-based services, you can determine a user's location and deliver proximity-based notifications
using Juniper Mist's patented vBLE Technology.
SDK-integrated mobile devices listen for and receive the Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) packets that are
transmitted by the APs. The information in these packets gets packaged up by the SDK client and sent
to the Juniper Mist cloud. Finally, the cloud returns the x,y coordinates to the mobile device every
second based on the information that it received.
For more information, see "Juniper Mist SDK" on page 100.
Your application uses this information to provide relevant experiences, such as wayfinding directions
and push notifications.
4
Figure 2: How Mist Shows User Location With vBLE
Video: Modern RF Glass
Use Cases
Juniper Mist supports many location-based use cases. A few possibilities are described below.
Wayfinding
Wayfinding is just like the Google and Apple Maps experience, navigating you from point A to point B.
Picture a retail location. A customer is shopping at a store, and they have the retailer’s mobile
application on their cell phone. APs transmitting BLE are located all over the store. If you integrate the
SDK into your customer-facing app, you can support wayfinding. The retail customer can search for an
item and then be guided turn by turn to the location of the item within the store.
For more information, see "Wayfinding Use Case" on page 61.
Video: Wayfinding Use Case
5
Asset Visibility
Quickly locate assets such as electronics and equipment. To support asset tracking, you attach BLE
beacon tags to the assets that you want to track. When the AP hears the BLE transmission from the tag,
it locates that asset on the Live View in the Juniper Mist portal. Staff at a hospital can use this feature to
track down the location of medical equipment, such as wheelchairs.
For more information, see "Find Equipment Use Case" on page 88.
Figure 3: Asset Tracking Example
Figure 3 on page
6
Video: User Experiences with Location Services Webinar
User Engagement
When a site visitor enters a virtual beacon's coverage area, the Location Engine sends a push
notification to display a greeting. One example of this is when a person enters through the front door of
an office building and a redirect link to the company homepage is sent to their device.
6
Figure 4: User Engagement Example
Video: Juniper Mist User Engagement Demo
What's Next?
• Obtain and activate your subscriptions. See "Activate Subscriptions" on page 7.
• Select your APs. See "APs for Location Services" on page 8.
• Place your APs to ensure full BLE coverage. See "AP Placement for Location Services" on page 9.
• Set up your floorplan to ensure location accuracy. See "Floorplan Setup Overview" on page 30.
• Implement your use cases.
For example, see:
• "Wayfinding Use Case" on page 61
• "Find Equipment Use Case" on page 88
Activate Subscriptions
SUMMARY
7
To implement location services for your organization, purchase the appropriate subscriptions, and
activate them.
Decide which Mist AI and Cloud Services you need, and then contact MistRenewal@juniper.net to
purchase them. For location-based services, relevant subscriptions include:
• Juniper Mist Asset Visibility
• Juniper Mist Premium Analytics
• Juniper Mist User Engagement
After you purchase a subscription, Juniper emails the activation code(s) to you.
To activate a subscription:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Organization > Subscriptions.
2. Click Apply Activation Code.
3. Enter the code.
4. Click Activate.
APs for Location Services
SUMMARY
Get familiar with the access points (APs) that you can use with Juniper Mist™ Location Services.
The following access points include Juniper's patented virtual Bluetooth Low Energy (vBLE) technology:
• Indoor access points: AP45, AP43, AP41, AP33, and AP21
• Outdoor access points: AP63 and AP61
• BLE only: BT11
8
NOTE: You can use the BT11 to ensure full BLE coverage in areas where you don’t need
an AP for Wi-Fi coverage.
Compare these access points at Juniper.net.
AP Placement for Location Services
SUMMARY
Learn the do's and don'ts to ensure location accuracy when planning and installing access points (APs)
at your site.
To ensure the best possible accuracy and stability, follow these guidelines:
• Mount the access points (APs) on the ceiling, with the LED facing the floor.
Example
• Ceiling mounting results in the best directionality for the Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beams.
• If ceiling mounting isn’t possible and you must mount the AP on a wall, pole, column, or similar
structure, use brackets to position the AP with the LED facing the floor.
• Ensure that the AP is 9 to 15 feet (2.7 to 4.5 meters) above the floor.
• The height requirement ensures that BLE clients receive a strong received signal strength
indicator (RSSI) and the best possible directionality for the BLE beams.
• If you need to install APs in an area with ceilings higher than 15 feet, consult with a sales
engineer.
• We do not recommend above-ceiling mounting. Again, consult with a sales engineer.
• Each AP should have an unobstructed line of sight to at least two other APs.
• Optimal BLE range is a radius of approximately 15 meters (49 feet) from the AP.
9
• Install APs within 10 to 15 meters (32 to 49 feet ) of one another.
• For wayfinding, be sure to provide coverage at junction points and corners.
• Don't place APs any closer than 8 meters (26 feet) in the same room or space. Closer placement
offers no benefit in terms of coverage and could cause interference.
NOTE: If APs are in different rooms, separated by a wall, close placement doesn't pose
an issue.
• For corners, hallways, and areas where you need only BLE and not Wi-Fi services, consider using
Juniper BT11 access points.
• Don't install an AP:
• Behind, inside, or on top of other objects.
• On the floor.
• Next to metal, glass, or concrete.
10
AP Deployment Assessment
SUMMARY
Do you have enough access points (APs) at your site?
Assess your deployment by using Marvis Actions,
Wireless Service Level Expectations (SLEs), and the
RF Health and Utilization dashboard in Premium
Analytics.
IN THIS SECTION
Overview | 11
Juniper Mist Tools | 12
Wireless SLE Analysis | 14
RF Health and Utilization Dashboard in
Premium Analytics | 16
Recommendations | 18
Overview
Determine if you need more APs for optimal connectivity and user experience. Consider our
recommendations as you optimize your deployment.
Methodology
Use the following tools and features to conduct the assessment:
• Marvis Actions: Utilize Marvis, the virtual network assistant, to analyze network issues, troubleshoot
problems, and optimize performance.
• Wireless SLE: Monitor key performance indicators related to coverage, roaming, throughput, and
capacity to gauge the effectiveness of the current AP deployment.
• RF Health and Utilization dashboard in Premium Analytics: Evaluate the radio frequency (RF) health,
interference, and utilization to identify potential areas of improvement in the wireless network.
Assessment Criteria
The assessment will focus on the following aspects:
1. Signal Coverage: Analyze the signal strength and quality across the site to ensure comprehensive
coverage and minimal dead zones.
11
2. Roaming Performance: Assess the seamless transition of client devices between APs to maintain
uninterrupted connectivity.
3. Throughput Analysis: Evaluate the data transfer speeds and capacity to accommodate the expected
user load and application demands.
4. RF Health and Utilization: Monitor RF health, interference, and spectrum utilization to optimize the
performance of the wireless network.
Juniper Mist Tools
Juniper Mist™ is a subscription-based service. For more details about Juniper Mist subscriptions, see
Juniper Mist Subscriptions and Subscription Requirements for Marvis Actions.
Marvis Actions
In order to ensure optimal network performance and coverage, it is essential to regularly assess the
sufficiency of the APs in your network. By leveraging the Marvis Actions in Juniper Mist portal, you can
efficiently identify and address any issues affecting your APs.
To view the Marvis Actions dashboard, select Marvis > Marvis Actions from the left menu.
When you click the Wireless button on the Actions dashboard, you'll see a list of all available actions.
You can then click an action to investigate further.
Figure 5: Marvis Actions
See Marvis Actions Overview for details.
Offline AP Detection
Marvis can detect APs that are offline due to various reasons, such as power loss or loss of cloud
connectivity. This report indicates a need for further investigation or potential troubleshooting to
restore connectivity.
12
Investigate the Offline AP action on the Actions dashboard to address any APs that are showing as
offline. This report help in restoring network connectivity and ensuring seamless operation.
If Marvis identifies multiple APs as offline, it signals the need for immediate attention to resolve the
connectivity issues impacting network performance.
Health Check Failures
Health check failures reported by Marvis might indicate underlying hardware or software issues
affecting APs within the network. Swift action is required to rectify these issues to prevent any network
disruptions.
Use the Health Check Failed action to investigate and address any APs experiencing health check
failures. Consider hardware replacement or firmware upgrades as necessary steps to resolve the issue.
An AP that continuously fails health checks might need to be replaced or have its firmware upgraded to
ensure proper functioning within the network.
Non-Compliant Firmware
The Non-Compliant action flags APs running outdated firmware versions compared with other APs of
the same model at the site. Updating firmware is crucial to ensure security, stability, and performance
improvements.
Upgrade the firmware of Non-Compliant APs from the Marvis Actions page to align with the latest
version. This step helps in maintaining consistency across APs and mitigating potential vulnerabilities.
A prompt upgrade of firmware on Non-Compliant APs can enhance network security and performance,
ensuring all APs operate optimally within the network.
Coverage Hole Detection
The Coverage Hole action identifies areas within your network experiencing poor coverage, allowing
you to optimize placement and configuration of APs to improve network efficiency.
Utilize the floor plan visual provided by Marvis to pinpoint areas with coverage issues and take
necessary steps such as adding APs, adjusting placements, or increasing power output to address the
coverage gaps.
13
By identifying and resolving coverage holes promptly, you can enhance network connectivity and user
experience, ensuring seamless communication across all areas.
Insufficient Capacity Alert
The Insufficient Capacity action detects capacity issues arising from increased utilization, especially
during peak client traffic. Addressing capacity constraints is vital to maintain network performance and
avoid congestion.
Analyze the floor plan visual provided by Marvis to identify APs experiencing capacity issues and make
design improvements to alleviate congestion and optimize network capacity.
Wireless SLE Analysis
Juniper Mist uses Service Level Expectations (SLEs) to measure user experiences, with customizable
thresholds for factors like throughput, capacity, and device health. If experiences fall short, Juniper Mist
identifies the root causes and provides detailed information for resolution. The SLE dashboard offers a
quick overview of service levels and issues needing attention.
See Wireless SLEs Dashboard for more information.
Select Monitor > Service Levels from the left menu, and then click the Wireless button.
14
Use the following SLE to assess your users' experiences with signal strength, throughput, RF channel
capacity, roaming between APs, and APs availability.
1. Signal Coverage: Analyze the Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) and signal quality data to
identify areas with weak coverage or potential signal asymmetry.
2. Roaming Performance: Evaluate the success rate of client device roams between APs and identify
any issues related to latency or signal stability.
3. Throughput Analysis: Assess the estimated per-client throughput and investigate any capacity or
coverage-related constraints impacting user experience.
4. Capacity Analysis: Review the RF channel capacity availability and potential limitations due to
interference or client usage.
15
5. AP Health Status: Track AP health to assess your users' experience with AP availability. Get
percentage of time the APs are operational without rebooting or losing connectivity to the cloud.
RF Health and Utilization Dashboard in Premium Analytics
The RF Health and Utilization dashboard provides long-term radio frequency (RF) health and utilization
pattern for your network. With the information, you can analyze channel utilization trends for different
radio bands across various sites, floors, and APs, ensuring optimal performance and capacity planning.
In Juniper Mist portal, click Analytics > Premium Analytics. On the Premium Analytics page, click RF
Health and Utilization.
16
Here you can analyze channel utilization trends for different APs.
17
SLE Coverage and Capacity: This report evaluates the SLE coverage and capacity across APs and sites,
identifying sites with poor signal strength, high interference, or coverage gaps. By analyzing these
metrics, you can determine where additional APs are needed to improve coverage and signal quality.
Average Neighbor AP Count: This value indicates the average number of APs at the site that can detect
each other. A high count signifies a dense deployment, while a low count indicates a sparse deployment.
Ideally, the value should range between 3 and 5 for optimal performance.
Average Co-Channel Neighbor Count: This value represents the number of APs broadcasting on the
same channel, averaged across all Juniper APs at the site. A high count suggests frequent co-channel
interference on the site. While individual APs use Radio Resource Management (RRM) to mitigate
interference, a high site-wide count points to broader density challenges.
By using RF health and utilization data, you can make informed decisions about where to place new APs
to balance the network load and enhance overall performance.
See RF Health and Utilization for details.
Recommendations
Based on the assessment findings, the following recommendations are proposed:
• Optimize the placement and configuration of existing APs to improve signal coverage and address
any identified dead zones. For help placing APs for location services, see the Juniper Mist Location
Service Guide.
• Implement recommended actions provided by Marvis to address ongoing network issues and
enhance overall network performance.
• Consider the deployment of additional APs in areas with high client density or limited coverage to
improve user experience and accommodate growing demand.
• Mitigate any identified RF interference sources and optimize spectrum utilization to ensure a healthy
RF environment for the wireless network. For help with radio management, see the Juniper Mist
Wireless Assurance Guide.
Regularly monitoring and addressing the actions highlighted by Marvis can help you maintain an efficient
and reliable network infrastructure. This action ensures that the deployed APs are functioning optimally
and meet the demands of your network environment.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Wireless Actions
18
AP Placement for Location Services
RF Health and Utilization
19
2
CHAPTER
BLE Settings
IN THIS CHAPTER
Enable Bluetooth Based Location Services | 21
BLE Beacons | 22
Change the BLE Power Settings for Access Points | 24
Enable Bluetooth Based Location Services
SUMMARY
Set up your site configuration to enable Virtual Bluetooth LE (vBLE) and related options that are
required to support various location-based services.
Virtual Bluetooth LE (vBLE) enables businesses to deliver location-based services to their customers and
employees. Juniper Networks Access Points (APs) use a dynamic 8-antenna array that transmits BLE
signals and blankets an entire area with BLE.
Enable vBLE Engagement if you want the vBLE antenna array to transmit BLE signals for indoor location
wayfinding. This comes in handy in a retail setting, for example, when a customer in a store needs
directions for how to get to a particular department.
Enable Asset Visibility if you also want to use the APs for asset tracking. When you enable Asset
Visibility, the AP will listen for and locate devices containing BLE tags. This comes in handy for tracking
equipment, monitoring occupancy, or analyzing staffing.
You can enable vBLE Engagement and Asset Visibility in the site configuration or the device profiles in
the Juniper Mist portal. In this procedure, you'll enable them at the site level.
To enable Bluetooth Based Location Services:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Organization > Site Configuration.
2. Select the Site where you want to enable location-based services.
3. Scroll down to Bluetooth based Location Services.
4. Select the vBLE Engagement check box.
This enables the vBLE array for all APs at this site; all APs will transmit BLE signals for location
wayfinding.
5. (Optional) Select the App Wakeup check box if you want the AP to transmit a ninth omni beam
("super beacon").
21
For example, a retailer might want “super beacons” at the front of a store. When customers enter,
they get a notification on the retailer’s Mist SDK-enabled mobile application. There are many other
use cases that you can implement based on your business goals.
6. (Optional) Select the Asset Visibility check box if you want to use the APs to track assets.
Note:
• When you enable Asset Visibility, the APs listen for BLE signals and will indicate the location of
these BLE clients and assets on the Live View.
• If you enable both vBLE Engagement and Asset Visibility, the AP must transmit and receive BLE
signals. To optimize performance, enable only the features that you need for your use cases.
The following table shows how your selections affect the rate at which the AP sends data to the
Juniper Mist cloud.
Table 1: Transmission Rates
Location Service Enabled Transmission Rate
Both vBLE Engagement and Asset Visibility Every 2 seconds
Only vBLE Engagement Every second
Only Asset Visibility Every 2 seconds
BLE Beacons
SUMMARY
Enable virtual beacons that communicate to Apple and Android devices.
Virtualized Bluetooth® Low Energy (vBLE) beaconing technology allows exact calculations for locating
BLE-enabled devices. Juniper Mist access points (APs) use this technology and can simulate third-party
beacons to locate devices containing BLE sensors. Beacons can be broadcast with different payload
structures.
22
Juniper Mist APs broadcasts three types of beacons:
• iBeacon–iBeacon is a protocol Apple developed that mobile devices use that allows the device to act
as a Bluetooth transmitter. When the device gets within range of an AP broadcasting iBeacon, the AP
detects the device signal and then uses the installed mobile application to trigger an action or push a
notification to the user’s mobile device. Both iOS and Android devices can use iBeacon.
• Eddystone UID–Eddystone (Unique beacon ID) UID is a protocol that Google developed. It allows
mobile devices to act as Bluetooth transmitters. When the device is within range of an AP
broadcasting Eddystone UID, the AP detects it and uses an installed mobile application to trigger an
action on the mobile device. Both iOS and Android devices can use Eddystone UID.
• Eddystone URL–Eddystone URL is a protocol that Google developed. When a device is within range
of an AP broadcasting Eddystone-URL, the AP will detect it and send a URL from the web in the form
of a notification to the mobile device. A mobile application is not needed for this to work. Eddystone
URL is compatible only with Android devices.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Access Points.
2. Select the Access Point that is going to broadcast BLE beacons.
3. Scroll down to the BLE Settings configuration block.
4. Select Enable for each type of BLE beacon you want to broadcast, and then update the payload
according to the payload structure.
5. Click Save (in the top right corner).
NOTE: To verify that the beacons are broadcasting, you can use the Beacon Simulator
Application. You can download the app from the Apple App Store or from the Google
Play Store. Make sure to turn on Bluetooth on your mobile device prior to using the
app.
23
Change the BLE Power Settings for Access Points
SUMMARY
When needed, you can adjust an access point's
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) and Virtual Bluetooth
Low Energy (vBLE) power levels.
IN THIS SECTION
Change the BLE and vBLE Power Settings for
an AP | 24
Change the Power Settings for Multiple APs
as a Batch | 26
BLE Power Settings for Juniper Access
Points | 27
It's rarely necessary to change the BLE power settings for an access point (AP). Typically, you would
change them only if you want to fine-tune the location-based services at your site.
You can change these settings for a single AP or for multiple APs as a batch.
• "Change the BLE and vBLE Power Settings for an AP" on page 24
• "Change the Power Settings for Multiple APs as a Batch" on page 26
Change the BLE and vBLE Power Settings for an AP
Follow these steps if you need to adjust only one AP.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist™ portal, select Access Points.
2. Click the AP that you want to adjust.
3. Under BLE Settings, drag the BLE Beacon Power slider left (lower power) or right (higher power).
24
4. Under vBLE Array, drag the VBLE Beacon Power slider left (lower power) or right (higher power).
25
The power level options are from Level 1 (the lowest power) up to Level 7 (the highest power). The
corresponding transmission power (in dBm) varies for each AP model. For more information, see "BLE
Power Settings for Juniper Access Points" on page 27.
5. Click Save (near the top right corner of the page).
Change the Power Settings for Multiple APs as a Batch
Follow these steps if you want several APs to have the same BLE and vBLE power levels.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Access Points.
2. Select the check boxes for the APs that you want to adjust.
3. Click More, and then click Batch Edit.
4. Drag the Set Beacon Power control left (lower power) or right (higher power).
26
The power level options are from Level 1 (the lowest power) up to Level 7 (the highest power). The
corresponding transmission power (in dBm) varies for each AP model. For more information, see "BLE
Power Settings for Juniper Access Points" on page 27.
5. If you want these same settings to apply to vBLE on the selected APs, enable Virtual BLE Array.
6. Click OK.
BLE Power Settings for Juniper Access Points
SUMMARY
Understand the meaning of power levels 1-6 on your Juniper access points (APs).
Table 2: BLE Power Settings for BT11, AP41-US, and AP61-US
Level Power
6 12 dBm
27
Table 2: BLE Power Settings for BT11, AP41-US, and AP61-US (Continued)
Level Power
5 8 dBm
4 4 dBm
3 0 dBm
2 -4 dBm
1 -8 dBm
Table 3: BLE Power Settings for AP21, AP33, AP41-WW, AP43, AP45, AP61-WW, and AP63
Level Power
6 9 dBm
5 5 dBm
4 1 dBm
3 -3 dBm
2 -7 dBm
1 -11 dBm
28
3
CHAPTER
Floorplan Setup
IN THIS CHAPTER
Floorplan Setup Overview | 30
Deploy Mist with Ease using Wireless Design Tools | 31
Add Wayfinding Paths to a Floorplan | 38
Add Other Items to a Floorplan | 43
Validate Your Floorplan | 57
Floorplan Setup Overview
SUMMARY
Understand the importance of floorplans and get
familiar with the process of adding them to your
sites.
IN THIS SECTION
Importance of the Floorplan | 30
Video Overview | 30
Process Overview | 30
Importance of the Floorplan
The floorplan is an essential component of location services. Your floorplan provides Juniper Mist™ with
accurate information about the site and the access points (APs).
An accurate floorplan enables the location engine to generate accurate location estimates for the client
devices, assets, and users at your site.
The floorplan must be correctly scaled, must include all APs, and must correctly represent their
positions, heights, and orientations. If an AP is installed at your site but not represented on the
floorplan, it does not participate in location services.
Video Overview
Video: Adding a Floorplan
Process Overview
To implement the scenario, do these tasks.
30
Table 4: Floorplan Setup Process
Step Action More Information
1 Add your floorplans, scale them, and add
your access points to your floorplans.
See these topics in the Onboarding Section
of the Wireless Guide:
• Adding and Scaling a Floorplan
• Adding Access Points to a Floorplan
3 Add other elements as needed for the use
cases that you're implementing.
See the use cases chapters of this guide
and the other sections of this Floorplan
Setup chapter.
4 Validate your floorplan. "Validate Your Floorplan" on page 57
Deploy Mist with Ease using Wireless Design Tools
SUMMARY
Read this topic to learn how you can use wireless
design tools to easily import floorplans and related
attributes into the Juniper Mist™ portal.
IN THIS SECTION
Requirements and Considerations | 33
Match APs in the Project Files to Your
Physical Mist APs | 34
Export Ekahau Design Files and Import them
to Mist | 34
Export Hamina Design Files for Automatic
Import to Mist | 35
Automatically Import Mist Floorplans to
Hamina | 37
Export iBwave Design Files and Import them
to Mist | 37
You can manually import a floorplan and related attributes into the Juniper Mist™ portal simply by
importing the files you already created in wireless design tools such as Ekahau Pro, iBwave, and Hamina.
31
Wireless design tools provide a one-stop-shop for all of your floorplan and building design needs. They
enable you to design your floorplan and related aspects such as access point (AP) placement, AP
orientation, channel settings, and more. Importing the resulting files saves you time, as the design work
you have already done in your project within the design tool automatically carries over when you import
the file into Mist. Using these completed floorplan maps reduces duplication of effort.
Hamina also offers an integration with the Mist cloud API that enables automatic import of floorplan
designs into Mist. Once you provide your Mist API key, simply export your floorplan designs from the
third-party tool and they carry over automatically to Mist. Hamina uses the export function to drive the
automatic floorplan import to Mist.
This topic demonstrates the following (in sequential order):
• Manual Import: How to export design files from wireless design tools and how to manually import
those files into Mist.
• Automatic Import (with integrations): How to export design files from wireless design tools for
automatic import to Mist.
Each of the wireless design tools is introduced in their own sections of this topic.
As part of the manual file import, Mist automatically:
• Imports floorplan images from the file.
• Sets the scale of the floorplan for you.
• Imports any APs from the file along with their associated settings, as long as you have completed "AP
Matching" on page 34.
• Assigns the AP's x,y coordinates, height, and orientation.
• Assigns the AP to a site if it has not already assigned to one. This requires Super User or Org
Network Admin privilege.
• Places the AP on a floorplan if it has not already been placed on a floorplan.
• Names the AP if it has not already been named in the wireless design tool. Otherwise, the name
given in the design tool is carried over as part of the import.
NOTE: The import action in Mist never changes an AP's assigned site, name, or floorplan
if one has already been assigned in the design tool.
Mist currently allows you to import a floorplan using the following file types:
• Ekahau (.esx files)
32
• iBwave (.mist.ibwc files)
• Hamina (there is no file type necessary for importing Hamina floorplans into Mist, as the items you
select and export in Hamina are imported directly to Mist as part of the integration).
The automatic file import from wireless network tools into Mist (via API integrations) includes the
following:
• Hamina:
• Uploads the floorplan to Mist
• Matches simulated APs from the Hamina project to the APs in Mist
• Assesses Wi-Fi coverage needs
• Scales the floorplan
• Places the APs on the floorplan
• Assigns APs to the site
• Assigns AP names, height, orientation, MAC addresses, location, transmit power, channel, and
channel width settings
• Deploys new sites in Mist
Requirements and Considerations
To import a floorplan into Mist from a third-party project file, you must follow these requirements and
keep the following information in mind:
• • iBwave—You must use a minimum version of iBwave Wi-Fi 14.2 or a later.
• Ekahau Pro—Survey data is not supported for file import. All survey data must be deleted from
the project prior to importing into Mist.
• Floorplan image size—The size of the floorplan file you import to Mist must be less than 8 MB
(less than 1 MB is recommended).
• You must "Match APs in the Project Files to Your Physical Mist APs" on page 34.
33
Match APs in the Project Files to Your Physical Mist APs
Prior to using the Import Floorplan feature in Mist, you must match the simulated APs in the project files
to your physical Mist APs. There are several ways to accomplish this:
• • Match via MAC address—Within the project file, use the <apname> – <apmac> notation to name APs.
• This is useful if you manually allocate APs ahead of time.
• Alternatively, you can simply enter the MAC address of the AP name in the project file. This is
demonstrated in the Ekahau video below. Use this method if you don’t want to name APs in
Mist.
• Match via AP name—Name the AP in the project file so that is matches the exact name of the AP
within Mist.
• This method is most commonly used in conjunction with the Mist AI Mobile App. The
advantage is you can pick any AP at random out of the box, and then use the application to
scan the QR code and enter a name at the time of installation. You do not need to pre-allocate
APs. See No Link Title.
• Match via CSV file—Name the AP in the project file, and also import a CSV file with AP name to
MAC address mapping.
• This is the most flexible and scalable method. It's especially useful when third-party contactors
are used to install the APs, as they typically provide a spreadsheet with AP and serial number
or mac address.
• Manually match APs when you ingest the project files.
• This method is only recommended for small deployments, as it is the most time consuming
method.
Export Ekahau Design Files and Import them to Mist
Ekahau is a tool you can use to design your floorplan with granularity for network optimization. It
enables you to design your floorplan and related devices so that it mirrors the real-world setup. You can
export your Ekahau floorplan designs from within the tool and then manually import them into Mist.
1. In Ekahau Pro, navigate to File > Save and save the .esx file which you will import to Mist in an
upcoming step to a location on your local drive.
2. df
3. On the Mist portal, navigate to Location > Live View > Import Floorplan.
34
4. On the Import Floorplans window, drag and drop the.esx file you want to import and select any AP
settings you want to include under More Options. See step 4 in Import a Floorplan for more details
about what these options do.
5. Click Import.
6. To complete "AP Matching" on page 34, select the Match APs button, or click Finish if you are done.
You should now see your floorplans have been imported along with any associated settings.
The following videos provide a start-to-finish look at how to design and plan your network using
Ekahau.
Video: Create Your Floorplan Design in Ekahau
Video: AP Placement in Ekahau for Indoor Location Wayfinding
Video: AP Height and Orientation Considerations in Ekahau
Video: RRM Planning in Ekahau
Video: Import Your Ekahau Floorplan Design into Mist
Export Hamina Design Files for Automatic Import to Mist
The Hamina Planner is a web-based planning and design tool. It is integrated with Juniper Mist so that,
when you export your floorplan design from Hamina, it is automatically imported to Mist. This is
accomplished through Hamina's integration with the Mist cloud API.
Prior to exporting your Hamina design files, ensure the following:
• Your design includes:
• Background map
• Scaled layout
• AP locations
• AP model and type
• BLE directionality
• Height settings
35
• Walls and attenuating objects
• Scope zones
• AP naming is consistent:
• Helps Mist match APs more easily during import
• Optional: Preload MAC addresses if known
1. In Hamina, select your project name from the drop-down menu in the top left corner, then select
Export.
2. Under the Juniper Mist section of the Export window, make the appropriate selections in the Region
and Choose credentials fields. The credentials field is where you select your Mist API credentials. Or,
you can click the three dots to the right of the field to enter a new API key. Refer to No Link Title if
you need to obtain your Mist API Key.
NOTE: The Mist API enables Hamina floorplan designs and AP settings to be brought
over automatically to Mist.
3. Select the appropriate Organization, Site, Floorplans, and APs to export, then click Export. This action
sends all of the selections over to Mist.
To see the export steps in action, watch the video under the Import & Export, Reimagined section of
this blog.
4. On the Mist portal, navigate to Location > Live View. You should see your floorplan imported from
Hamina.
NOTE: Additionally, when you create a new project in Hamina, you can choose Connect
Infrastructure, then choose Juniper Mist and select your region and credentials. This
automatically brings the floorplan you selected to the Live View page of the Mist portal
along with any APs and related information.
Watch the video below for a closer look into the power of the Juniper Mist and Hamina integration.
Video: Future of Wi-Fi Tools
36
Automatically Import Mist Floorplans to Hamina
On the flip side, you can import Juniper Mist floorplans and associated inventory into Hamina. Follow
the instructions outlined in Import From Juniper Mist to Hamina to see how this is done.
If you wish to make changes to a Mist floorplan you imported to Hamina, you can push those changes
back to Mist by following the export steps in the section above.
You can also see the steps for importing Mist Floorplans to Hamina in the second half of the video under
the Import & Export, Reimagined section of this blog.
Export iBwave Design Files and Import them to Mist
iBwave is a wireless network design software that enables you to design floorplans and related aspects,
ensuring an exceptional wireless experience in your buildings. You can export your iBwave floorplan
designs from within the tool and then manually import into Mist.
1. Complete the steps outlined in iBwave's Quick Start Guide to create a project in iBwave Express.
2. In iBwave Express, navigate to File > Export > Export to MIST.
3. Save the file to a location on your local drive.
4. On the Mist portal, navigate to Location > Live View > Import Floorplan.
5. On the Import Floorplans window, select the.mist.ibwc file you want to import and select any AP
settings you want to be included under More Options. See step 4 in Import a Floorplan for more
details about what these options do.
6. Click Import.
7. To complete AP matching, select the Match APs button, or click Finish if you are done.
You should now see your floorplans have been imported.
The following videos provide a start-to-finish look at how to design and plan your network using
iBwave.
Video: Create Your Floorplan Design in iBwave
Video: Place APs on a Floorplan in iBwave
Video: RRM Planning in iBwave
Video: Import Your iBwave Floorplan Design into Mist
37
SEE ALSO
No Link Title
https://docs.hamina.com/planner/import-export/juniper-mist
https://blog.hamina.com/hamina-wireless-x-juniper-integration-brings-network-design-andoperations-together
https://support.ekahau.com/hc/en-us/articles/20294597049883-Ekahau-Juniper-Mist-DashboardIntegration-How-To-Guide
Add Wayfinding Paths to a Floorplan
SUMMARY
Follow these steps to ensure successful wayfinding
experiences by including wayfinding paths on your
floorplans.
IN THIS SECTION
Add Walls to Improve Wayfinding | 40
Add Exclusion Zones to Improve
Wayfinding | 41
In a Juniper Mist™ implementation, indoor location wayfinding paths are just like roads in a GPS
navigation application. The wayfinding paths are the routes that users travel to reach their indoor
destination, usually in the form of hallways, corridors, or intersections. You should be familiar with the
physical space before you add wayfinding paths to the floorplan.
NOTE: Wayfinding paths are not required for indoor location wayfinding. However, we
strongly recommend that you configure these paths so that the blue dot on the user’s
mobile app will snap to the path that you want users to follow. The blue dot will separate
from the path when a user strays away.
When creating a wayfinding path, follow these best practices:
• Minimize the number of wayfinding paths on the floorplan. Draw a single, long path for a single
hallway, for example. This approach reduces error and prevents gaps between paths. It also reduces
the chance of the blue dot moving around jumpily while the user is on the path.
• If you have multiple paths, make sure that they are truly connected and that no gaps exist. To avoid
potential issues, draw paths so that they intersect one another.
• Delete any excess segments or nodes by selecting them and then clicking Delete on your keyboard.
38
• Add paths for narrow walkway areas such as hallways, corridors, or any areas where your users need
guidance.
You do not need to add paths to open areas, such as a cafeteria. As users move around the area, the
blue dot guides them toward nearby paths.
Video: Adding Wayfinding Paths to a Floorplan
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Select the site and the floorplan.
3. Click Wayfinding Paths.
4. Under Drawing Tool on the right, click Insert Path.
5. Start drawing your path, as follows:
a. Click inside the floorplan to indicate the starting point of the path.
b. Move to the next point that you want the path to include and click there to continue drawing the
path.
c. Click the last point drawn to finish drawing the path. This exits the drawing tool.
NOTE: To replay the animation, refresh the web page.
6. Fine-tune your paths.
• If you added multiple lines, zoom in on the floorplan to verify that no gaps exist.
• Add walls to keep the blue dot contained within a desired vicinity. For example, if there are walls
around the room that a user is in, the blue dot will be contained within that space. Walls prevent
39
the blue dot from snapping to paths outside of an enclosed area. For more information, see "Add
Walls to Improve Wayfinding" on page 40.
• Add Exclusion Zones to indicate areas where you don't want the blue dot to go, such as restrooms
and outdoor areas. For more information, see "Add Exclusion Zones to Improve Wayfinding" on
page 41.
7. Click Save.
Add Walls to Improve Wayfinding
SUMMARY
Fine tune blue dot behavior in wayfinding applications by drawing walls on your floorplan.
You can add walls to the floorplan to keep the blue dot contained within a desired vicinity. For example,
if there are walls around the room that a user is in, the blue dot will be contained within that space.
Walls prevent the blue dot from snapping to paths outside of an enclosed area.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist™ portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Select the site and the floorplan.
3. Click Wayfinding Paths.
4. Under Drawing Tool on the right, click Insert Wall.
5. Start drawing your wall, as follows:
a. Click inside the floorplan to indicate the starting point of the wall.
b. Move to the next point that you want the wall to include and click there to continue drawing the
wall.
c. Click the last point drawn to finish drawing the wall. This exits the drawing tool.
40
NOTE: To replay the animation, refresh the web page.
• Make sure that the walls and the wayfinding paths do not intersect.
• Do not block doorways with walls, or your app will not be able to lead your users through those
doors. Make sure there is enough space for the blue dot to enter and exit as needed.
6. Delete any excess segments or nodes by selecting them and then pressing Delete.
7. Click Save.
Add Exclusion Zones to Improve Wayfinding
SUMMARY
Further fine tune wayfinding experiences by identifying zones where you don't want the blue dot
to appear.
Add exclusion zones to indicate areas where you don't want the blue dot to go, such as restrooms and
outdoor areas. Completely enclose these areas, without any gaps, so that the blue dot cannot enter the
exclusion zone.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist™ portal, select Location > Live View.
41
2. Select the site and the floorplan.
3. Click Wayfinding Paths.
4. Under Drawing Tool on the right, click Insert Wall.
5. Start drawing the boundaries of the exclusion zone, as follows:
a. Click inside the floorplan to indicate the starting point of the exclusion zone.
b. Move to the next point that you want to include and click there to continue drawing the exclusion
zone.
c. Click the last point drawn to finish drawing the exclusion zone. This exits the drawing tool.
NOTE: To replay the animation, refresh the web page.
• Enclose Exclusion Zones fully by overlapping the corners of the walls with one another as you
draw them.
• The blue dot will stop at the edge of the Exclusion Zone and cannot enter by any means. Juniper
Mist will not collect data while a client or asset is within those areas.
6. Delete any excess segments or nodes by selecting them and then pressing Delete.
7. Click Save.
42
Add Other Items to a Floorplan
IN THIS SECTION
Add Third-Party Beacons to a Floorplan | 43
Add Location Zones to a Floorplan | 47
Auto Zone: Add Location Zones to a Floorplan (BETA) | 48
Add Proximity Zones to a Floorplan | 51
Add Virtual Beacons to a Floorplan | 54
NOTE: Before adding items to a floorplan, ensure that it is accurately scaled. See Scale a
Floorplan.
You must add your access points to the floorplan. Only APs that are on the floorplan can participate in
location-based services.
You also can add many other items, including:
• "Location zones" on page 47
• Third-party beacons
• Virtual beacons
• Wayfinding paths, walls, and exclusion zones
For details, continue to the next topics in this guide.
Add Third-Party Beacons to a Floorplan
SUMMARY
43
If you've installed battery-operated beacons to extend your BLE coverage, follow these steps to
add them to your floorplan.
Access point (AP) installation can be challenging in certain types of buildings or structures. One example
is an atrium, where cabling might interfere with aesthetics. In this case, you can use third-party, batteryoperated beacons to help provide coverage.
NOTE: 
• To ensure location accuracy, always use Juniper Mist™ APs. Third-party beacons are
not meant as a replacement for Juniper Mist APs. Third-party beacons can
supplement Juniper Mist APs in Mist SDK-enabled wayfinding deployments where
AP placement proves difficult.
• Don't confuse third-party beacons with Juniper Mist's virtual beacons. Third-party
beacons are physical, battery-operated beacons that exist onsite. You can deploy
them to help provide coverage. Juniper Mist's virtual beacons, on the other hand, do
not provide coverage. For more information about virtual beacons, see "Add Virtual
Beacons to a Floorplan" on page 54.
To add third-party beacons to a floorplan:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Click the floorplan to which you want to add the third-party beacons.
3. To ensure that the floorplan displays beacons:
a. Click the Settings button (near the top right corner of the page).
b. Select the Show 3rd Party Beacons check box.
c. Close the Location Settings window.
4. Click Beacons and Zones (above the map).
44
5. Click Add Beacon (above the map).
The third-party beacon appears at the center of the floorplan. The icon is a black-and-white circle.
Above the icon is the default name, Anonymous.
6. Drag the new Anonymous beacon into the correct position on the floorplan.
7. On the right side of the screen, under 3rd Party Beacons, select the check box for the new
Anonymous beacon.
8. Click Edit.
9. Enter the information about the beacon:
• For Type, select BLE Eddystone UID (required).
• Enter a unique Name so that you can easily identify the various beacons that you add.
• Ensure that the Namespace, Instance, and Mac Address fields contain the correct information.
• Drag the Transmit Power slider left or right so that it shows the transmission power that is
configured on the physical beacon.
• Ensure that the X position and the Y position match the physical location of the beacon.
45
NOTE: Juniper Mist will neither manage the beacon nor detect its health.
10. Click Save.
Your third-party beacon is visible on the floorplan.
The AI engine adds the beacon to the beams received. The engine uses the X,Y coordinates and
transmission power to help calculate beacon location.
46
Add Location Zones to a Floorplan
SUMMARY
Follow these steps to identify areas of particular interest on your floorplan.
Location zones are useful whether you're developing applications or using the occupancy and
engagement analytics pages in the Juniper Mist™ portal.
After you add location zones to a floorplan, you can use these zones in several ways.
• On the Occupancy Analytics page, you can monitor each zone's occupancy.
• On the Engagement Analytics page, you can analyze visitor and employee dwell times in each zone.
• With API calls, you can capture every zone entry and exit event for client devices, assets, and SDK
clients.
• With your Juniper Mist SDK-enabled applications, you can trigger alerts when people enter and exit
high-security zones.
To add location zones to a floorplan:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Select the site and the floorplan.
3. Click Beacons and Zones.
4. Click Add Location Zone.
5. Drag the mouse to define the zone.
Start from the top left corner of the area that you want to define. Release the mouse at the lower
right corner of the area.
47
TIP: To replay the animation, refresh the page or open the image in a new tab.
6. Give the zone a unique name:
a. On the Location Zones list, select the check box for the zone.
b. Click Edit.
c. Enter a name.
d. Click OK.
7. Add other zones as needed.
8. Click Save.
Auto Zone: Add Location Zones to a Floorplan (BETA)
Auto Zone automatically identifies location zones for you based on the boundaries of a given floorplan.
This can be especially useful for large deployments containing a vast number of buildings and rooms, as
48
it automatically identifies and names the zones for you, thus allowing for more precise analytics to be
gathered. For more information on location zones, see "Add Location Zones to a Floorplan" on page 47.
Auto Zone identifies location zones on a floorplan via Juniper's AI-powered image segmentation models,
which extract zone information directly from the floorplan and enable logical zone grouping. These
models also provide insight into occupancy and traffic flow. For more information, see Occupancy
Analytics Zone.
NOTE: Auto Zone merely suggests location zones for you. You must make adjustments
and finalize as you see fit.
Prior to using Auto Zone, ensure the following:
• Your floorplan is properly scaled. See Scale a Floorplan.
• Your floorplan is as clean as possible. For example, when rooms are the only thing featured on the
floorplan, and there is no additional clutter such as furniture or excessive lines, this ensures the most
accuracy.
• Clear all existing zones from the floorplan to avoid overlapping zones. You can do this from the list in
the Location Zones tab to the right of the floorplan.
To use Auto Zone:
1. From the Juniper Mist portal, navigate to Location > Live View.
2. Select the floorplan.
3. Select the Beacons and Zones button.
4. Select the Auto Zone button in the top right corner of the screen.
5. At the bottom of the Auto Zone window, select Start Auto Zone.
49
6. Confirm that you want to start Auto Zone by selecting Yes from the pop-up window that appears.
7. Once Auto Zone completes, review the zones, then select Accept or Reject. A pop-up window will
appear asking you to confirm your action.
8. If needed, adjust the proposed zones by physically dragging the corners of the zone with your
mouse.
9. Select the Location Zones tab to right of the floorplan to see the list of Location Zones that Auto
Zone has created for you. You can remove and rename zones from here as needed.
50
a. To remove a zone from the floorplan, select the checkbox next to the zone name, then select the
Remove button at the top.
b. To rename a zone, simply select the name to highlight it from the righthand list, then click Edit at
the bottom of the screen. Rename the zone, then select Save.
NOTE: You can also select a zone from the floorplan and it will highlight the
corresponding zone in the Location Zones list for you. This helps to ensure you have
the correct zone selected before editing or removing. If your floorplan is pre-labeled
with names, Auto Zone will automatically carry the zone names over for you.
10. When you are done making changes, select the Save button in the top right corner of the screen.
Add Proximity Zones to a Floorplan
SUMMARY
If you're implementing proximity tracing at your site, follow these steps to identify the areas that
you want to monitor.
You can create and use Proximity Zones to gather occupancy and engagement data for SDK clients,
named assets, and connected and unconnected WiFi clients. Users can create individual or grouped
Proximity Zones for each AP (access point). Proximity Zones triggering is based on the RSSI data
received from the clients.
When creating Proximity Zones, you can create:
• An individual Proximity Zone per AP
• Multiple Proximity Zones per AP
• Grouped Proximity Zones per grouped APs
After you add proximity zones to a floorplan, you can use these zones in several ways.
• On the Occupancy Analytics page, you can monitor each zone's occupancy by selecting Client
Density and Proximity Zones. Make sure to enable the Public Occupancy Dashboard in the site
configuration.
51
• On the Engagement Analytics page, you can analyze visitor and employee dwell times in each zone.
• With API calls, you can capture every zone entry and exit event for client devices, assets, and SDK
clients. Make sure Proximity Zones is selected as the Streaming API under Webhooks in the site
configuration.
• With your Juniper Mist™ SDK-enabled applications, you can trigger alerts when people enter and
exit high-security zones.
To add proximity zones to a floorplan:
1. From the left menu, select Location > Live View.
2. Select the site and the floorplan.
3. Click Beacons and Zones.
4. Click Add Proximity Zone.
5. Select the AP or group of APs that you want to be in the proximity zone.
If you selected a group of APs, also select the Group APs into one proximity zone check box to add
them all to a single proximity zone.
6. Give the proximity zone a name.
7. Set the RSSI threshold.
52
When a client reaches the indicated RSSI threshold or higher, an in_event is triggered. Similarly, if the
client travels further away from the AP and the RSSI goes lower than the threshold, an out_event will
occur.
8. Click Create.
You will see the proximity zone on the floorplan based on the information you provided.
53
9. Add other proximity zones as needed.
Add Virtual Beacons to a Floorplan
SUMMARY
To send push notifications to your application users as they progress through your site, add virtual
beacons to your floorplan.
A virtual beacon is an object on the floorplan that you can use to trigger proximity-based events through
your Juniper Mist™ SDK-enabled applications.
Examples
• At your building entrance: When visitors arrive, display a greeting on their mobile devices.
• Inside a store: Offer coupons as shoppers pass special displays.
• At a conference: Prompt attendees to download lecture slides when they enter a breakout room.
54
NOTE: A virtual beacon does not transmit or receive signals. It is purely virtual, for the
purpose of defining a coverage area for a Juniper Mist SDK-enabled interaction.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Click the site and the floorplan.
3. Ensure that the floorplan is showing the virtual beacons and their coverage areas:
a. Click the Settings button (near the top right corner of the page).
b. In the pop-up window, select the check boxes for Show Virtual Beacons and Show Virtual
Beacons Coverage.
c. Close the pop-up window.
4. Click Beacons and Zones.
5. Add a virtual beacon:
a. Click Add VBeacon.
b. Drag the new Anonymous beacon to the area where you want the users to see the notification.
c. As needed, add and position more virtual beacons.Click Save.
55
The floorplan shows the virtual beacons, surrounded by pink circles that indicate their coverage area.
6. Set the name and coverage area for each virtual beacon:
a. Click the virtual beacon.
b. Click Quick Edit (near the bottom right corner of the page).
c. Enter a Name to uniquely identify this virtual beacon on the floorplan.
d. Adjust the Transmit Power to make the coverage area larger or smaller.
• If the pink area on the map is smaller than the desired coverage area, drag the Transmit Power
control to the right. After you save the settings, the pink circles will widen.
56
• If the pink area is too large, drag the Transmit Power to the left. After you save the settings,
the pink circles will become narrower.
e. Click Save to save the settings in the Quick Edit pop-up window.
Next Steps
Configure the message that you want to display or the webpage that you want o launch when people
enter a virtual beacon's coverage area. See "Configure Push Notifications for User Engagement" on page
70.
Validate Your Floorplan
SUMMARY
Double-check everything to ensure that your floorplan is valid.
Most issues with location can be traced to floorplan inaccuracies. To enable the AP to generate accurate
location estimates, the position information in the Juniper Mist portal must match the AP's actual
position at your site.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Select the site and the floorplan.
3. If APs are not visible on the floorplan:
a. Click the Settings button (near the top right corner of the page).
b. Select the check boxes to show BT11 and Wi-Fi APs.
c. Close the Location Settings window.
4. Check the scale to ensure that distances on the floorplan match the actual distances at the site.
57
a. Click Ruler.
b. Draw a line between two points on the floorplan, such as two walls of a room.
c. Verify that the line length in the blue box matches the actual measurement at the site.
d. Click Done to put away the ruler.
If you need to change the scale, click Setup Floorplan, and then make the changes. For help, review
the other topics in this chapter.
5. Click each AP, and verify the information in the Selected Access Point area of the page.
• The MAC address shown on the floorplan must match the MAC address of the corresponding AP
at the site. If the MAC addresses don’t match, then Juniper Mist has inaccurate information about
the location of the AP, and the location estimates will be incorrect.
• The position, height, and orientation must be accurate to enable Juniper Mist to generate correct
location estimates.
If you need to make changes, click Setup Floorplan. Make changes by dragging the AP or by editing
the position details. For help, review the other topics in this chapter.
58
4
CHAPTER
Wayfinding and User Engagement
SUMMARY
Use the information in this chapter to
get started with wayfinding and user
engagement.
IN THIS CHAPTER
Wayfinding Use Case | 61
AR and VR Wayfinding Use
Case | 63
Hybrid Use Case | 65
Daisy-Chain BT11 APs | 68
Configure Push Notifications for
User Engagement | 70
Video Overview
Video: NOW in 60: Juniper Mist User Engagement
What Do You Want to Do?
Table 5: Top Tasks
If you want to... Use these resources:
Implement wayfinding to help your customers and
visitors find their way to rooms, events, and products.
This use case shows how you can use your Juniper
Mist User Engagement Subscription and the Juniper
Mist SDK, you can create wayfinding applications to
support your customers and visitors.
"Wayfinding Use Case" on page 61
Implement a mix of services including wayfinding, push
notifications, and asset tracking to promote user
engagement at your site or event.
This use case shows how a large retailer integrated
wayfinding with publish notifications and asset
tracking.
"Hybrid Use Case" on page 65
Get configuration tips. Explore the other topics in this chapter.
60
Wayfinding Use Case
SUMMARY
Are you interested in implementing indoor
wayfinding at your site? Read through this use case
to see one way to proceed, and get familiar with
the components and the an overview of the various
tasks involved.
IN THIS SECTION
Benefits | 61
Scenario | 61
Components | 61
Process Overview | 62
Benefits
With virtual Bluetooth LE (vBLE)-equipped Access Points (APs), a Juniper Mist User Engagement
subscription, and the Juniper Mist SDK, you can integrate turn-by-turn wayfinding into your on-site
customer engagement applications.
You can implement wayfinding at large-scale locations such as conference centers, sporting events,
theme parks, museums, hospitals, department stores, and universities. Wayfinding helps your app users
find their way to rooms, events, and products.
See more information about the Juniper Mist User Engagement Subscription.
Scenario
For this scenario, let's imagine that your professional association is hosting a large conference at a busy
convention center. You want to integrate wayfinding into an app that attendees can use to find their
conference rooms, dining facilities, and other important locations.
Video: Wayfinding Use Case
Components
Juniper Mist uses the following devices and systems to compute location precision.
61
• Access Points—APs with the vBLE antenna array transmit BLE signals and broadcast BLE Beacons.
For more information, see "APs for Location Services" on page 8.
• Mobile Devices—Mobile devices use Bluetooth to listen to BLE beacons broadcast from APs.
For more information, see "BLE Beacons" on page 22.
• Mobile Device Application with Juniper Mist SDK—The SDK (in the mobile app) receives data from
the AP and sends that data to the cloud.
For more information, see "Juniper Mist SDK" on page 100.
• Juniper Mist Cloud—The cloud takes the data that the device sends and runs it through the Location
Engine. The Location System then returns the location wayfinding information to the user on the
mobile application.
Process Overview
To implement the scenario, do these tasks.
Table 6: Wayfinding Setup Process
Step Action More Information
1 Purchase a Juniper Mist User Engagement
subscription, and activate it in the Juniper
Mist portal.
• Juniper User Engagement information
• "Activate Subscriptions" on page 7
2 Ensure that vBLE Engagement is enabled
for the site.
NOTE: vBLE Engagement is enabled by
default after you activate your User
Engagement subscription.
"Enable Bluetooth Based Location
Services" on page 21
3 Ensure that the Live View floorplan
includes accurate position, height, and
orientation data for your APs.
"Floorplan Setup" on page 30
4 Add wayfinding paths to the floorplan. "Add Wayfinding Paths to a Floorplan" on
page 38
62
Table 6: Wayfinding Setup Process (Continued)
Step Action More Information
5 Obtain the Juniper Mist SDK and integrate
it into your customer-facing mobile
application.
"Juniper Mist SDK" on page 100
6 Configure push notifications to provide
feedback and information to customers as
they pass through specific areas on their
route.
"Configure Push Notifications for User
Engagement" on page 70
AR and VR Wayfinding Use Case
SUMMARY
You can implement indoor wayfinding via
Augmented and Virtual reality to help your
employees, visitors, and customers find their away
around your sites.
IN THIS SECTION
Scenario | 64
WHAT's NEXT | 64
Juniper Mist location services offers indoor location wayfinding via augmented reality (AR) and virtual
reality (VR), enabling application users to navigate the premises using their enhanced real-world
surroundings. You can implement AR/VR wayfinding at large-scale locations where your app users need
assistance finding their way around.
A Juniper Mist User Engagement subscription and the Juniper Mist SDK enables you to integrate
bluedot wayfinding into your on-site mobile workplace and mapping applications. In this, the partner
application provides the camera-based AR/VR wayfinding experience, and the Mist SDK provides the
bluedot within that. In order for your employees, customers, or visitors to use AR/VR wayfinding,
camera access on their device must be enabled for the application. In-app alerts can also be pushed in
real-time, such as to alert visitors as they approach or enter restricted areas.
63
Scenario
Let's say your company has a large campus with various buildings and rooms, some of which are
restricted to visitors. You want to integrate wayfinding into an application that both employees and
visitors can use to find their way around.
For example, employees may need assistance navigating within large storage facilities to find the
location of certain items, or they may need help navigating in buildings that they do not typically work
in. Visitors need assistance navigating within buildings to find areas such as conference rooms or offices,
and you also want to ensure they stay out of restricted areas.
WHAT's NEXT
To get started, see:
• "Components" on page 61
• "Process Overview" on page 62
64
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Wayfinding Use Case | 61
Juniper Mist SDK | 100
Hybrid Use Case
SUMMARY
See how a retail store achieves a variety of business
goals by implementing several types of location
services together.
IN THIS SECTION
Super Beacons | 65
Indoor Location Wayfinding | 66
Zones for Zone Analytics | 66
Asset Tracking | 67
Guidelines | 68
Juniper Mist™ offers a wide variety of indoor location services that you can mix and match (a hybrid
approach) depending on your use cases.
Below is a real-life example of a Mist customer (a large retailer) who uses the following mix of location
services:
• Super beacons
• Indoor location wayfinding
• Zones for zone analytics
• Asset tracking
Super Beacons
This Juniper Mist customer placed access points (APs) transmitting a ninth omni beam (“super beacons”)
at the entrances of the store. When customers enter, they get a notification on the retailer’s Mist SDKenabled mobile application. For details about implementing this location service, see "Enable Bluetooth
Based Location Services" on page 21.
65
Indoor Location Wayfinding
All main aisles and concrete pathways are wayfinding paths for indoor location wayfinding. See
"Wayfinding Use Case" on page 61.
The customer installed the APs with drop-threaded rods over the center of an aisle, approximately every
two aisles. 
This customer used daisy chaining in several parts of the store where it made sense to save switch ports.
See "Daisy-Chain BT11 APs" on page 68 .
Zones for Zone Analytics
Departments in the center of the store, such as infants’ apparel or men’s clothing, are zones for the
purpose of gathering zone analytics. See "Add Location Zones to a Floorplan" on page 47.
Notice that the customer mounted BT11 APs on existing support columns and structural poles. In these
areas, the retail customer leaves the established wayfinding paths and provides X and Y coordinates to
the back end for the zone analytics engine to process for retail customers’ shopping habits.
66
Asset Tracking
This Mist customer uses asset tracking so that store employees can locate misplaced items, such as
warehouse pallets. The customer placed Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beacon tags on the items to be
tracked. With those tags in place, employees can track the location of the assets on the Live View page
of the Juniper Mist portal. See "Find Equipment Use Case" on page 88.
67
Guidelines
• We always recommend that you refer to the "AP Placement for Location Services" on page 9 to
ensure that you have proper coverage.
• You must ensure that products on the shelves do not block APs, as this blockage can interfere with
Bluetooth. 
• When placing your APs, be sure that you follow the Rubber Band Model to ensure location accuracy
and keep customers inside of the APs at the outer edges of the floorplan. See "Rubber Band Model"
on page 87 .
• If you cover a large area with Mist APs, you may experience AP Reflection. The AP Reflection
Detection event on the Analytics > Events page means that the AP is receiving packets sent from its
own Ethernet port (the source address for inbound packets is the address of the AP itself). Double
check your physical connections to fix any loops that you may have inadvertently created on your
network.
Daisy-Chain BT11 APs
SUMMARY
Follow these guidelines to economically power multiple BT11 access points (APs) from one Power
over Ethernet (PoE) port.
It can be challenging to support turn-by-turn indoor wayfinding in long hallways. To provide continuous
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) coverage, the access points (APs) must be within 30 to 50 feet (10 to 15
meters) of one another. If your site has several long hallways, you'll need a lot of access points (APs).
Purchasing a large number of full-featured APs can get expensive. And powering them can quickly use
up your switch ports.
The BLE-only BT11 is an economical choice in any area where you're either overlaying an existing
wireless network or supporting only location-based services (not Wi-Fi).
By daisy chaining these APs, you can power four APs per switch port (the directly connected AP and
three others).
68
Before You Begin
Place your APs to ensure continuous BLE coverage and location accuracy. See "AP Placement for
Location Services" on page 9.
To daisy chain BT11 access points:
Enable PoE Passthrough to extend power from the first AP to the enabled Ethernet ports and/or the
module port. This allows the first AP to provide Power over Ethernet (PoE) to devices connected to Eth1
on the AP. To configure PoE Passthrough, see PoE Passthrough.
Connect the first BT11 AP to a Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP)-enabled switch or a 30-watt (W)
power injector. Then connect up to three other APs in a daisy chain.
NOTE: If you use a 15W power injector or a switch without LLDP enabled, you can
power only two daisy-chained units (the directly connected AP and one other).
Tips
• If the APs lack sufficient power, they will reboot. This issue can occur if:
• The first AP is not connected to an LLDP-enabled port or 30W power injector.
• The daisy chain includes more than the recommended number of APs.
• Be mindful of the cable length between the switch and the first BT11. A device loses 4.5W of power
for every 100 meters of cable separating it from its power source.
• If the switch port has MAC limiting enabled, increase the limit to allow the actual number of APs in
the daisy chain.
69
Configure Push Notifications for User Engagement
SUMMARY
After enabling virtual beacons, add the messages for your push notifications and fine-tune the
power settings for optimal impact.
When developing applications with the Juniper Mist SDK (Software Development Kit), you can include
notifications. For example, you can display a greeting when a user enters your building. You can display a
special offer when a customer approaches a sales display.
To set up these notifications, add "virtual beacons" on page 54 to your floor plan. Because the beacons
are virtual, you can add as many of them as you need. For each one, specify the message or web page to
display, and define the coverage area. When your mobile app user enters the virtual beacon’s coverage
area, as shown in pink below, the specified message or web page appears in the app.
Video Overview
Video: What are Virtual Beacons
Before You Begin
Add virtual beacons to the floorplan. See "Add Virtual Beacons to a Floorplan" on page 54.
To configure push notifications:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Click the site and the floorplan.
3. Ensure that the floorplan is showing the virtual beacons and their coverage areas:
a. Click the Settings button (near the top right corner of the page).
b. In the pop-up window, select the check boxes for Show Virtual Beacons and Show Virtual
Beacons Coverage.
c. Close the pop-up window.
70
4. Configure the notifications for each virtual beacon:
a. Click the virtual beacon.
b. Click Quick Edit (near the bottom right corner of the page).
c. Enter a Name to uniquely identify this virtual beacon on the floorplan.
d. Enter the Message or URL that you want to display in your application when users enter the
coverage area of this virtual beacon.
e. Click Save to save the settings in the Quick Edit pop-up window.
5. Test your application to ensure that the notifications appear when expected. If needed, adjust the
coverage area of the virtual beacon.
A pink circle represents a virtual beacon's coverage area.
71
To adjust the coverage area:
a. Click the virtual beacon.
b. Click Quick Edit (near the bottom right corner of the page).
c. Adjust the Transmit Power to make the coverage area larger or smaller.
• If the pink area on the map is smaller than the desired coverage area, drag the Transmit Power
control to the right. After you save the settings, the pink circles will widen.
• If the pink area is too large, drag the Transmit Power to the left. After you save the settings,
the pink circles will become narrower.
d. Click Save to save the settings in the Quick Edit pop-up window.
72
5
CHAPTER
Asset Visibility and Room Occupancy
SUMMARY
Use the information in this chapter to
get started with asset visibility and
room occupancy.
IN THIS CHAPTER
View and Manage BLE Clients |
 75
Create Named Assets | 79
Create Asset Filters | 82
Import Assets | 85
Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags |
 86
Rubber Band Model | 87
Find Equipment Use Case | 88
Room Utilization Use Case | 91
Find the Current Location of a
Named Asset | 93
Video Overview
Video: NOW in 60: Juniper Mist Asset Visibility
What Do You Want to Do?
Table 7: Top Tasks
If you want to... Use these resources:
Find equipment at your site.
With your Asset Visibility subscription, you can easily
find equipment and other assets, with detailed
analytics based on their location.
"Find Equipment Use Case" on page 88
Track your staff's usage of facilities.
With your Asset Visibility subscription, you can track
your staff's usage of your facilities.
"Room Utilization Use Case" on page 91
Understand guidelines for optimizing location-based
experiences.
Get tips for using BLE beacon tags, positioning your
access points, and managing assets.
• "Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags" on page 86
• "Rubber Band Model" on page 87
• "Import Assets" on page 85
• "Create Named Assets" on page 79
Explore further.
Explore use cases and concepts to benefit from your
Asset Visibility subscription.
Other topics in this chapter
With a Premium Analytics subscription, you can use the Asset Insights Dashboard to collect data about
BLE-tagged asset location, status, and usage. This dashboard provides details about the assets in your
organization as well as insights into asset inventory across sites. You can also view inactive assets,
monitor movement trends across zones, and much more.
74
View and Manage BLE Clients
SUMMARY
The BLE Clients page shows information about all
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) clients that have been
active at the selected site and floorplan.
IN THIS SECTION
Prerequisites | 75
Find the BLE Clients Page | 76
Filter the Data | 77
Adjust the Columns | 78
Add, Modify, or Remove Assets | 78
Juniper Mist Asset Visibility is a cloud service that provides real-time tracking and historical location
analytics for people, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) assets, and IoT devices. For example, with asset
location and tracking configured on a site, you can quickly account for high-value construction
equipment, or pinpoint the location of key human resources such as nurses or security guards. It's not
uncommon, however, for the number of assets under management to scale to the thousands and even
tens of thousands, making it hard to find and track individual items or groups in a meaningful way.
Juniper Mist provides multiple ways to name, filter, and categorize BLE assets so you can organize and
identify them at scale.
Prerequisites
The BLE Clients page is available only if Asset Visibility is enabled. First purchase and enable an Asset
Visibility subscription, and then enable Asset Visibility in the site configuration.
1. Purchase and activate your Asset Visibility subscription. See "Activate Subscriptions" on page 7.
2. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Organization > Site Configuration.
3. Select the site.
4. Scroll down to the Bluetooth based Location Services section of the site configuration.
5. Select the Asset Visibility check box.
75
Find the BLE Clients Page
Juniper Mist Asset Visibility solves this by providing a variety of ways that you can use to name, filter,
and categorize your BLE assets.
To view your existing BLE Clients in the Mist dashboard, select a site with BLE clients and then choose
the following:
• Clients > BLE Clients
Figure 6: BLE Clients
Figure 1 shows a typical list of BLE clients (also called tracked assets, and BLE tags) along with the Live
View and location history of one selected BLE client. By default, Juniper Mist Asset tracking supports
BLE MAC addresses and RSSI signal strength. The omnidirectional Bluetooth antenna in Juniper Mist
APs also works in conjunction with RSSI signal strength identify the quadrant, or relative direction, of
the asset to the AP.
From BLE clients page, you can select the site and use the tabs to quickly filter assets that have already
been grouped:
76
• By Site—Select a site from the drop down. Note that if the site does not have any BLE clients, that
option will not show up in the menu.
• By Tab:
• All—Shows all client BLE assets in the site. If a Juniper Mist AP can hear the signal, the asset will
be listed, regardless of whether the tag is named or labeled or otherwise.
• "Create Named Assets" on page 79—Use named assets to find and display assets by their custom
Mist asset label and beacon type.
• "Create Asset Filters" on page 82—The Asset Filters tab shown a list of existing asset filters, if
any, that are available in the Mist portal.
• To add assets to the list, click the Add Asset button to create the filters, as explained below.
• By Attribute—To filter based on an attribute such as MAC address or manufacturer, start typing in the
Filter box. For example, you only need to type uni to find assets with "Juniper Networks" in the
name. You can also use multiple filters to further narrow the list, as shown here:
•
Filter the Data
Use the buttons and the Filter box to narrow or expand the data that is displayed on the BLE Clients
page.
• To show only named assets, click the Named Assets button near the top of the page.
NOTE: For help naming assets, see "Create Named Assets" on page 79.
• To select a site, use the Site drop-down list near the top of the page.
• To filter by BLE advertisement details, click the tabs above the table: iBeacon, Eddystone UID,
Eddystone URL, Eddystone TLM. For example, if you select iBeacon, the table shows only the clients
that are advertising iBeacon UUID/Major/Minor packets.
See "BLE Beacons" on page 22.
77
Adjust the Columns
You can add, remove, and sort the columns on the BLE Clients page.
• To sort by a column, click the column heading. To reverse the sort order, click the column heading
again.
• To view the column options, click the settings button at the top right corner of the page.
In the Table Settings window, select the check box for each column to include. Clear the check box
for each column to remove. Close the window to apply the changes.
Add, Modify, or Remove Assets
• To add an asset, click Add Asset. Then enter the name, select any labels that you want to apply, and
enter the MAC address.
NOTE: You also can import a list of assets. See "Import Assets" on page 85.
• To add or remove labels for assets, select the check boxes for the assets, and then click Edit Assets.
Then make your changes, and click OK.
• To delete assets, select the check boxes for the assets, and then click Delete Assets.
78
Create Named Assets
SUMMARY
For asset visibility use cases, it's helpful to assign
names to the assets.
IN THIS SECTION
Select BLE Clients to Name | 79
Use a Filter to Generate a Common Name
for Similar Assets | 81
Use a CSV File to Assign Names to
Assets | 81
Naming assets helps you to identify them in Live View and other areas of the Juniper Mist™ portal.
Behind the scenes, Juniper Mist prioritizes named assets, compared to the unnamed BLE client devices
in your environment. This prioritization results in even better location accuracy for the assets that you
want to track.
You can use any of these methods to name assets:
• "Select BLE clients to name." on page 79
• "Use a filter to generate a common name for similar assets." on page 81
• "Use a CSV file to assign names to assets." on page 81
Select BLE Clients to Name
You can select any Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) client and enter a name manually or use variables to
generate a name that includes details such as the site name. Or select multiple clients and use a counter
to assign similar names, such as Asset 1, Asset 2, and so on.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Clients > BLE Clients.
2. Select the check box for each client that you want to name.
3. At the top of the page, click Locate this as an asset (if you selected one client) or click Locate these as
assets (if you selected multiple clients).
4. In the pop-up window:
79
a. Select the check box.
b. In the Generate names with format box, enter characters, variables, or both.
The asset name can include characters that you type, plus information that Juniper Mist generates
from variables. Read the on-page information to learn more about the variables. To enter a
variable, type it as shown, including the square brackets.
NOTE: If you selected multiple clients, you must use a counter variable, such as [ctr]
or [ctr.3], to give each client a unique name.
Example: Let's say that you've attached BLE beacon tags to three wheelchairs. You want to name
them Wheelchair_1, Wheelchair_2, and Wheelchair_3. You'd enter the text, Wheelchair_, along
with the [ctr] variable.
TIP: If you have multiple sites, consider including the [site] variable. Then, when
viewing the BLE Clients page, you can use the site name as a filter.
5. Click Save.
80
Use a Filter to Generate a Common Name for Similar Assets
You can use a filter to identify and name assets that have a common attribute, such as the manufacturer
or the iBeacon UUID. For example, let’s say that you attached BLE beacon tags to the inventory carts
that your employees use in your retail store. You want to name all of these assets Inventory Cart so that
you can easily identify them in Live View.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Clients > BLE Clients.
2. In the Filter box, enter the value that you want to use for this filter.
For this example, the tags on the inventory carts have a common UUID, so you'd enter the complete
UUID in the Filter box.
3. Click Create Label.
4. In the pop-up window, enter the name that you want to assign to these assets.
For our example, you’d enter Inventory Cart as the name.
5. To confirm that the label was added, you can look for the assets on the BLE Clients page and in the
Live View.
• On the BLE Clients page, enter the name in the Filter box, and press Enter. The table is filtered to
show the assets with that name.
• On the Live View page, click the Assets tab and then scroll through the list to see the assets with
the new name.
Use a CSV File to Assign Names to Assets
With this approach, you enter the names and MAC addresses in a file, and then upload it on the BLE
Clients page.
For instructions, see "Import Assets" on page 85.
81
Create Asset Filters
SUMMARY
Create asset filters that you can use to categorize
and track your BLE assets.
IN THIS SECTION
Create an Asset Filter | 83
BLE Beacons for Filtering | 83
Requirement: Asset Visibility | 84
Juniper Mist provides multiple ways to name, filter, and categorize BLE assets so you can organize and
identify them at scale. One of them is asset filters, which is a method for identifying and tracking asset
using the asset's existing tags. Many IoT devices and BLE clients come pre-configured with a
manufacture's tag, asset name, or other identifier that they broadcast along with the BLE beacon. The
device manufacturer may also provide a way for you to create your own custom tag for their assets.
Mist BLE can read these values, which means you just need to create a corresponding filter to
automatically select asset groups according to their filter value. Thus in a hospital setting, for example
where you may have tens of thousands of tracked assets, asset filters gives you a way to quickly focus
on just the asset class or type you want, such as EKG stations, IV tables, or Medicine Carts.
Figure 7: Adding an Asset Filter
82
Create an Asset Filter
As explained below, you can use asset filters to find and display assets according to their beacon type
and embedded asset value, which can be a very practical way to call-out specific assets from what may
otherwise be a very long list.
• In the BLE Clients page, click the Add Asset button and select Asset Filter to open the asset filter
page.
• For Filter Type, specify the beacon used by the assets you want to identify.
• For Value, used the value embedded in the beacon you want to identify and/or track.
Figure 8: Create an Asset Filter
You can combine up to six different filter types (that is, the existing tag data embedded in on the asset)
and values per asset filter, although in many cases a single, unique and class-identifying value such as a
manufacture's ID is sufficient for the filter to produce the needed specificity.
BLE Beacons for Filtering
BLE provide two types of data exchange modes, connected and advertising. Connected mode transfers
data in a one-to-one connection (which means both data transmission and receipt are acknowledged),
and advertising mode, which broadcasts data out to anyone who is listening (which means there is no
guarantee of receipt).
83
The two main types of BLE beacons used by BLE assets are iBeacons, created by Apple Computers, and
Eddystone, developed by Google. Both these operate in advertising mode and periodically broadcast
specially formatted advertising packets, which can include corresponding data fields.
To read the data field correctly and thus perform filtering, Mist needs to know how to interpret the BLE
signal (what we call the asset type in the GUI) and where to look for the payload (what we call the value
in the GUI).
• • iBeacon—this is an Apple standard that lets mobile devices listen for BLE advertisements
"through" the lock screen. iBeacon sub-classifier fields for additional levels of distinction, as
described below:
• Proximity UUID (Universally Unique Identifier)—A 128-bit value that uniquely identifies the
beacon by type or organization. They look like this: f7826da6-4fa2-4e98-8024-
bc5b71e0893e
• Major —A 16-bit unsigned integer that can be used to group related beacons that have the
same proximity UUID.
• Minor—A 16-bit unsigned integer that differentiates beacons with the same proximity UUID
and major value.
• Eddystone UID—A 128-bit beacon ID that is comprised of an 80-bit namespace and a 48-bit
instance ID. The namespace can be used to group beacons, while the instance ID identifies
individual devices in the group.
• Eddystone URL—A URL compressed to fit within the limits of the advertisement frame, that, once
decoded, the Wi-Fi client can use to access the internet.
• Eddystone TLM— This frame broadcasts telemetry such as battery voltage and device
temperature. This frame must be paired with an identifying frame of type Eddystone-UID or
Eddystone-URL to include an ID.
• Service UUID—A 128-bit value that uniquely identifies the beacon. They can look like this: Service
UUID: 0000f7fd-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb
• MFG Data—When used, displays the name of the device manufacture or other selected data.
Requirement: Asset Visibility
Asset Visibility must be enabled for the AP to receive BLE signals. Go to Organization | Admin > Site
Configuration > Site Name > Bluetooth based Location Services.
84
On the same page, you can also, optionally, enable vBLE Engagement for wayfinding. On the APs (or via
device profile), you may also need to "Enable Bluetooth Based Location Services" on page 21 for the
beacon type. These options are explained here:
• Enable Asset Visibility to have the APs listen for BLE signals from nearby devices and display a Live
View of the locations on the floor plan (note that the APs must already be placed on a floor plan).
• Enable vBLE Engagement to have the APs transmit BLE signals APs for location wayfinding.
• Enable App Wakeup to have APs send a "super beacon" that works in conjunction with your
customized Mist-SDK implementation and mobile app, for example, to pop-up a notification on
customer's mobile phone when the enter a premises.
See also "Activate Subscriptions" on page 7.
Import Assets
SUMMARY
Quickly add dozens or hundreds of BLE assets by using a CSV (Comma-Separated Values) file.
1. Create a CSV file that includes the asset names and MAC addresses.
CSV Example
Asset Name,MAC Address
Asset 1,00:00:00:00:00:01
Asset 2,00:00:00:00:00:02
NOTE: If you use a spreadsheet application to create the CSV file, enter the data in two
columns. The column headings must be Asset Name and MAC Address.
2. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist™ portal, select Clients > BLE Clients.
3. Click Import Assets.
4. Upload the file, and then click Import.
5. Click OK to close the pop-up window.
85
6. To confirm that the assets were added, scroll down the BLE Clients page, or use the Filter box.
Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags
SUMMARY
Follow these guidelines when selecting Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beacon tags to use with
Juniper Mist™ Asset Visibility.
Consult with the tag vendor to ensure that your BLE beacon tags meet the following requirements:
• 1000 to 100 millisecond (ms) interval rate
The interval rate is the rate at which the BLE tag broadcasts BLE signals. Any setting from 1 second
(1000 ms) to 0.1 seconds (100 ms) is suitable for asset tracking. More frequent transmissions mean
that the AP location sensor has more data to use. However, the battery life of the BLE tag will be
shorter.
• 0 decibel milliwatt (dBm) for power
If the power setting is less than 0 dBm, the ceiling-mounted AP will have trouble detecting the BLE
signal.
• Static MAC Address
Juniper Mist uses the MAC address to identify the asset and to match it to the named assets that
you configure in the portal. If the address is not static, Juniper Mist cannot match it to your named
assets.
If your BLE tags don’t meet these standards, reach out to Juniper Mist Support for assistance. To contact
Support, click the question button in the top right corner of the portal, and then click Support Tickets.
86
Rubber Band Model
SUMMARY
Use the "rubber band model" to properly place your access points (APs) for BLE coverage.
When placing access points (APs) for asset visibility use cases, apply the "rubber band model" to ensure
location accuracy.
NOTE: We recommend the rubber band model for asset visibility only; it is not necessary
for other use cases such as wayfinding.
To apply this model, envision a rubber band that encompasses the desired coverage area. Imagine
anchoring the rubber band with four APs, one at each corner of the space. Then apply the "AP
placement guidelines" on page 9 to distribute additional APs, as needed, within that space.
This approach differs from the way that you'd deploy APs for Wi-Fi coverage. For Wi-Fi, you'd typically
work from the center outward.
If you've already deployed APs without this model in mind, consider deploying Juniper BT11 APs to fill
in. Place these APs at the outer edges of the space to provide the anchor points for the imaginary rubber
band.
87
Find Equipment Use Case
SUMMARY
Watch this video and follow the example to see
how you can use Juniper Mist™ Asset Visibility to
locate items across your site, whether tracking
equipment such as wheelchairs, machinery, and
mobile devices, or personnel via their company
badges or student IDs.
IN THIS SECTION
Benefits | 88
Scenario | 88
Components | 89
Process Overview for Equipment
Finding | 89
Benefits
With an Asset Visibility subscription, you can easily find equipment and other assets, with detailed
analytics based on their location.
You can use Asset Visibility in many settings and industries (education, energy, government, health care,
entertainment, retail, and more).
Video: Introducing Mist Asset Visibility
Scenario
For this scenario, let's consider an example in health care. People often abandon wheelchairs in the
lobby or hallways. When a patient needs a wheelchair, you need to find one quickly. As shown below,
you can go to the Live View floorplan and quickly spot a wheelchair that was left in the lobby.
88
Components
This scenario relies on these components:
• Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) Beacon Tags—BLE tags broadcast a BLE signal at a regular interval. You
can use any tag that meets our "Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags" on page 86.
• Access Point (APs)—The AP detects the signals from the BLE tags.
• Juniper Mist Location Engine—The location engine in the Juniper Mist Cloud processes the available
information to determine the location of the asset.
NOTE: With BLE beacon tags, the only available information is the BLE signal itself.
With this limited information, Juniper Mist can provide zonal accuracy, identifying the
location within 3 to 5 meters.
• Juniper Mist Portal—In the portal, you’ll activate your subscription, enter names for your assets, and
use Live View to track them.
Process Overview for Equipment Finding
To implement the scenario, do these tasks.
89
Table 8: Setup Process
Step Action More Information
1 Purchase a Juniper Mist Asset Visibility
subscription, and activate it in the Mist
portal.
• Juniper Mist Asset Visibility information
• "Activate Subscriptions" on page 7
2 Go to Organization > Site Configuration,
and complete both of these tasks:
• Ensure that Asset Visibility is enabled.
NOTE: This feature is enabled by
default after you activate your Asset
Visibility subscription.
• To optimize performance for asset
tracking, disable vBLE Engagement.
When both features are enabled, the
AP must transmit and receive. Giving
the AP extra tasks means that it has
less time to scan for signals from your
BLE tags.
3 Ensure that your APs are placed according
to the "rubber band model."
"Rubber Band Model" on page 87
4 Ensure that the floorplan includes accurate
position, height, and orientation data for
your APs.
"Floorplan Setup" on page 30
5 Obtain compatible BLE beacon tags and
attach them to the assets that you want to
track.
"Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags" on page
86
6 Name the assets. "Create Named Assets" on page 79
7 Track the assets in Live View. "Find the Current Location of a Named
Asset" on page 93
Also see Asset Insights Dashboard.
90
Room Utilization Use Case
SUMMARY
Watch this video and follow the example to see
how you can use Juniper Mist™ Asset Visibility to
see which rooms at your site are most used, and at
what times of day.
IN THIS SECTION
Benefits | 91
Scenario | 91
Components | 91
Process Overview | 92
Benefits
With a Juniper Mist Asset Visibility subscription, you can find assets and people, with detailed analytics
based on their location. You can use asset tracking in many settings and industries (education, energy,
government, health care, entertainment, retail, and more).
Scenario
This scenario takes place in a busy medical clinic. The main goal is to track the doctors' use of various
examination rooms. Another goal is to quickly locate a doctor's laptop if the doctor leaves it behind
anywhere in the facility. You can use location data from the in-room BT11 access points (APs) and the
APs that provide wireless throughout the clinic.
Video: Generic Guest Wi-Fi and In-Room Analytics
Components
This scenario relies on these components:
• Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beacon tags—BLE tags that are attached to the doctors' badges and the
laptops. You can use any tag that meets Juniper's "Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags" on page 86.
91
• APs—The AP detects the signals from the BLE tags. In situations where you want BLE coverage but
don't need wireless coverage, you can use BT11 APs. For best results, install the AP on the ceiling at
the exact center of the room.
• Juniper Mist location engine—The location engine in the Juniper Mist cloud processes the available
information to determine the location of the BLE beacon tag. With BLE beacon tags, Juniper Mist
can provide zonal accuracy, identifying the location within 3 to 5 meters.
• Juniper Mist portal—In the portal, you’ll activate your subscription, enter names for your assets, and
use Live View to track the assets.
• Juniper Mist API—You can use the programmable API to collect the data that you need for your
business goals.
• (Optional) Third-party software—You can pull the data into your favorite third-party software and
then create colorful data visualizations and reports.
Process Overview
Table 9: Asset Tracking Setup Process
Step Action More Information
1 Purchase a Juniper Mist Asset Visibility
subscription, and activate it in the Mist
portal.
• Juniper Mist Asset Visibility information
• "Activate Subscriptions" on page 7
2 Go to Organization > Site Configuration,
and complete both of these tasks:
• Ensure that Asset Visibility is enabled.
• To optimize performance for asset
tracking, disable vBLE Engagement.
When both features are enabled, the
AP must transmit and receive. Giving
the AP extra tasks means that it has
less time to scan for signals from your
BLE tags.
92
Table 9: Asset Tracking Setup Process (Continued)
Step Action More Information
3 Ensure that your APs are placed according
to the "rubber band model."
"Rubber Band Model" on page 87
4 Ensure that the floorplan includes accurate
position, height, and orientation data for
your APs.
"Floorplan Setup" on page 30
5 Purchase BLE badges and assign them to
your employees.
"Guidelines for BLE Beacon Tags" on page
86
6 Name the badges so that you can quickly
identify each doctor.
"Create Named Assets" on page 79
7 Use the Juniper Mist API to collect the data
that you need.
API documentation is available in the
Juniper Mist portal. At the top right corner
of the Juniper Mist portal, select the
question icon, and then select API
Documentation.
8 With a Premium Analytics subscription,
you can use the Asset Insights dashboard
to gather data about asset location, status,
and usage.
Asset Insights Dashboard
Find the Current Location of a Named Asset
SUMMARY
Follow these steps to search for an asset by name in Location Live View.
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
93
2. (Optional) To simplify the display:
a. Select the Settings button (near the top right corner of the page).
b. Clear all check boxes except Show Assets.
c. Close the pop-up window.
3. Select the Assets tab (on the right side of the page).
4. Scroll down the list to find the name of the asset.
For this example, we selected Wheelchair 1. When you click on the asset name, the asset appears
with a green icon on the floorplan. All other assets are grayed out to make the selected asset more
visible.
NOTE: Juniper Mist provides zonal accuracy, within 3 to 5 meters. Pinpoint accuracy is
not possible, due to the limited information from the BLE beacon tags.
5. If you want to see more information about the asset, select Location History (in the lower right
corner of the page).
You can select the time frame to see the asset’s locations over time and the percentage of time spent
in various zones.
94
6
CHAPTER
Analytics
IN THIS CHAPTER
Analytics Overview | 96
MAC Randomization and Location Analytics | 96
Analytics Overview
SUMMARY
Get started with analytics.
Once you’ve set up your sites and floorplans for Location Services, you can use the following Analytics
Dashboards to gather various types of location services data:
• Engagement Analytics
• Occupancy Analytics
• Premium Analytics
These dashboards provide insights into space occupancy, user visits, user dwell times, location history,
proximity zones, and so on.
NOTE: Engagement and Premium Analytics require a subscription. You will need to
purchase and activate these subscriptions in order for these dashboards to appear in the
Juniper Mist™ portal. See "Activate Subscriptions" on page 7.
MAC Randomization and Location Analytics
SUMMARY
Learn about MAC randomization and how it can limit
the usefulness of data you can gather from client
devices.
IN THIS SECTION
Available Data from Bluetooth Devices | 97
MAC Randomization | 97
Impact of MAC Randomization | 97
Active Analytics | 98
96
Certain data can be collected passively from Bluetooth devices, without any active engagement with the
users. However, passive analytics has limitations. Read further to understand the issues and how active
analytics can help.
Available Data from Bluetooth Devices
A Bluetooth device, like any wireless device, announces itself to the world by sending advertisement
packets. The most common payloads are:
• Local Name
• Power Level
• Manufacturer-Specific Data (including payloads for iBeacon, AltBeacon, and Eddystone)
However, BLE devices do not advertise constantly. For example, a phone might not advertise when
ringing or when receiving a text message.
MAC Randomization
While advertising, the device can also indicate if it is using its physical MAC address or a random MAC
address.
Generally, MAC randomization does not occur with BLE beacon tags or accessories such as wireless
headsets. However, most mobile devices randomize their MAC address. For example, each time that an
iOS or MacOS device wakes up, it uses a new, random MAC address.
Impact of MAC Randomization
MAC randomization benefits users by protecting their privacy and ensuring that the device is not easily
trackable. However, if you're relying on passive analytics, MAC randomization poses some challenges.
• Hidden MAC addresses—If you try to search the data by using a device's physical MAC address, you
won't find it. Only a random MAC address is advertised, so the physical MAC address is not
detectable.
• Multiple MAC addresses—Because certain devices advertise new MAC addresses whenever they
wake up, you might see multiple addresses from one device.
97
Active Analytics
Passive analytics has challenges due to the limited data in the advertisement packets, the fact that
devices do not transmit constantly, and MAC randomization.
Active analytics can be a much more valuable approach. By developing Juniper Mist™ SDK-enabled
applications, you can drive user engagement and collect more information. For example, you can collect
information when users log in, click buttons, and follow links. Because the users identify themselves
when they log in, the data that you collect is de-anonymized. You're counting and tracking the actual
users of your application, without the issues that can result from MAC randomization.
98
7
CHAPTER
Location-Based Application
Development
IN THIS CHAPTER
Juniper Mist SDK | 100
Webhooks for Location Services | 101
Juniper Mist SDK
SUMMARY
Get started using the Juniper Mist™ Software
Development Kit (SDK) to develop your locationbased applications.
IN THIS SECTION
How to Get the Juniper Mist SDK | 100
How to Get the Juniper Mist SDK
The Juniper Mist SDK provides the tools you need to build customer-facing applications that deliver
indoor location services. Use these resources to install the SDK for Android and iOS.
For installation and integration steps, see the Juniper Mist SDK Manual on github for Android Devices
and iOS Devices.
For Android devices, you can add the dependency with the latest version of the Juniper Mist SDK in the
build.gradle file or manually download the .aar files from github. See the Juniper Mist Location SDK
Android latest version.
For iOS, you can use CocoaPods to include SDK in code, or download a framework file from github. See
the Juniper Mist Location SDK iOS latest version.
NOTE: In the legacy version of the Juniper Mist SDK, the MSTCentralManager class was
used when integrating the SDK. Now, with the latest release of the Juniper Mist SDK,
the IndoorLocationManager class is used. For integration steps, please see:
• Android SDK Integration Steps
• iOS SDK Integration Steps
100
Webhooks for Location Services
SUMMARY
Learn about the location-based webhooks that you
can configure to obtain real-time data for your
location-based applications.
IN THIS SECTION
Location-Based Webhooks | 101
Requirements for Using Webhooks | 101
Learn More | 102
When you configure webhooks, Juniper Mist™ automatically pushes data to a provided URL. You'll get
real-time notifications in the Juniper Mist portal as events happen across your organization or within a
particular site. You can use this data in your Juniper Mist SDK-enabled applications or analyze the data
with third-party software.
Location-Based Webhooks
Location-based webhooks include:
• Location coordinates—Updated at regular intervals of less than 1 second.
• Zone entry and exit events—Updated when a client device enters or exits a location zone.
• Virtual beacon entry and exit events—Updated when a client device enters or exits the coverage area
of a virtual beacon.
Requirements for Using Webhooks
• Correctly scale the floorplan.
• Place the access points (APs) on the floorplan. Ensure that the orientation and the position on the
floorplan match the physical orientation and location of the AP at the site.
• For zone entry and exit events, add zones to the floorplan.
• For virtual beacon entry and exit events, add virtual beacons to the floorplan.
101
Learn More
For more information about webhooks:
• In the Juniper Mist portal, click the question mark icon, and then click API Documentation. See the
Webhooks section of that site.
• In the Juniper Technical Library, see the Webhooks chapter of the Juniper Mist Automation and
Integration Guide .
102
8
CHAPTER
Troubleshoot Location Services
SUMMARY
Use the information in this chapter to
troubleshoot location issues.
IN THIS CHAPTER
Location SLEs | 105
Search in Live View | 110
Troubleshoot Location Services
Using the RF Environment | 112
Verify and Enable the vBLE
Array | 116
Check Your Site's Beam Density
Coverage | 117
Troubleshoot the Juniper Mist
SDK | 120
Troubleshoot Incorrect Latitude
and Longitude (SDK) | 122
Marvis Client and Location
Services Integration for
Troubleshooting | 126
Other Troubleshooting Tips for
Location Services | 127
What Do You Want to Do?
Table 10: Top Tasks
If you want to... Use these resources:
Search for items on your floorplans.
Use Live View to look for APs, beacons, zones, and
other elements. View details to check the settings.
"Search in Live View" on page 110
Use the RF Environment to investigate issues with
location accuracy.
This tool helps you gain insight into what is going on
with Mist SDK-enabled clients and named assets.
"Troubleshoot Location Services Using the RF
Environment " on page 112
Check on AP coverage.
Check current coverage to see if you need to add APs.
"Check Your Site's Beam Density Coverage" on page
117
Get help troubleshooting specific issues. Explore the other topics in this chapter.
Get help from the Marvis conversational assistant.
If you have a Marvis subscription, use the
conversational assistant for immediate insights into
current conditions, and help resolving issues.
Marvis Conversational Assistant (topic in the Juniper
Mist AI-Driven Operations Guide)
104
Location SLEs
SUMMARY
Use the Location Service Level Experiences (SLE)
dashboard to assess the service levels for userimpacting factors such as SDK connection issues,
latency, dropped requests, access point health, and
more.
IN THIS SECTION
Overview | 105
Location SLE Blocks | 106
Overview
IN THIS SECTION
Finding the Location SLEs Dashboard | 105
Success Threshold Settings | 106
Finding the Location SLEs Dashboard
To find the Location SLEs dashboard, select Monitor > Service Levels from the left menu of the Juniper
Mist™ portal, and then click the Location button.
NOTE: Your subscriptions determine which buttons appear.
105
Success Threshold Settings
You can adjust the thresholds that determine success or failure. To do so, click the Settings button at the
right top corner of the location SLEs section. In the settings window, follow the on-screen instructions
to set each threshold.
NOTE: Most SLEs allow you to increase or decrease the threshold. Certain SLEs are not
adjustable.
Location SLE Blocks
As shown in the following example, each SLE block provides valuable information.
• At the left, you see that this SLE has a 77 percent success rate. If you select the Value filter button,
you'll see a number instead.
• At the center, the timeline shows variations across the time period. You can hover your mouse
pointer over any point to see the exact time and SLE outcome.
At the right, the classifiers show the percentage of the issues that were attributed to each root cause.
In this example, the issues were almost evenly distributed among Beam Density (33 percent of the
issues), Beacon Density (33 percent), and Weak RSSI (32 percent). Another 2 percent of issues were
attributed to Machine Learning.
• If you click a classifier, you'll see more information on the Root Cause Analysis page. Most classifiers
have sub-classifiers for greater insight into the exact causes. The Root Cause Analysis page also
provides additional details about the scope and impact of the issues. For all location SLEs, the Root
Cause Analysis page includes a Location tab, where you can see exactly where the issues occurred on
your floor plans.
See the following table for more information about the location SLEs and classifiers.
106
Table 11: Location SLE Descriptions
SLEs SLE Descriptions Classifiers Classifier Descriptions
SDK Connect Time Juniper Mist measures
the time when your SDKenabled app clients are
connected to location
services at your site.
User Usage Incidents when the client
connection time was
below the threshold.
For example, if you set
the threshold to 60
seconds (by clicking the
Settings button), then this
classifier is triggered
when a client is
connected for less than a
minute.
Latency Juniper Mist measures
the latency of location
responses and estimates
to app clients.
Cellular Latency on a cellular data
connection
WiFi Latency on a wireless
connection
No Reported Connection
Type
Latency with unknown
connection type
Teleports Juniper Mist identifies
instances when the app
client's estimated location
veers away (or
"teleports") from the
actual location.
For example, if you set 3
meters as the service
target, this SLE is
triggered when the actual
location is more than 3
meters from the
estimated location.
Beacon Density The app client detected a
low number of beacons
from the access points
(APs).
Beam Density The app client detected a
low number of beams.
Machine Learning —Changes in machine
learning affected location
accuracy.
107
Table 11: Location SLE Descriptions (Continued)
SLEs SLE Descriptions Classifiers Classifier Descriptions
vBLE Placement The placement of the APs
affected location
accuracy.
Sub-Classifiers:
• Device Sensor—
Sensor issues in the
device affected
location accuracy with
respect to motion,
acceleration, etc.
• Weak RSSI—The app
client received a weak
signal (low Received
Signal Strength
Indicator).
Dropped Requests Juniper Mist monitors the
instances when dropped
location requests reduced
location accuracy.
The Pending Requests
classifier uses the
threshold that you set
with the Settings button.
The other classifiers act
on a pass/fail basing,
counting any incidents
that result in dropped
requests.
Reconnects Reconnection attempts
made after losing Internet
connectivity
Offline App offline due to issues
such as Wi-Fi reception,
poor cellular reception,
connectivity problems, or
user actions (for example,
switching to airplane
mode)
Not Uniform Requests Inconsistent speeds when
sending location requests
The app relies on uniform
requests for location
accuracy.
108
Table 11: Location SLE Descriptions (Continued)
SLEs SLE Descriptions Classifiers Classifier Descriptions
Dropped by Network Network issues causing
dropped requests
Client Request Timeout Client timeouts causing
dropped requests
Cellular Dropped requests while
using a cellular data
connection
WiFi Dropped requests while
using a Wi-Fi connection
Pending Requests Excess requests above
the configured SLE
threshold
A high number of pending
requests is used as an
indicator that future
requests are likely to be
dropped.
AP Health Juniper Mist counts the
incidents when APs
rebooted or lost
connectivity to the cloud.
Low Power Insufficient power for
location features
AP Disconnected Disconnected from cloud
due to issues such as site
down, switch down, AP
reboot, or AP unreachable
Ethernet Ethernet errors or speed
mismatch
Network Issues such as tunnel
down, latency, or jitter
109
Search in Live View
SUMMARY
Learn how to search for clients, access points (APs), assets, beacons, zones, and more in Location
Live View.
Use the search button on the Live View page to help you find items on a floorplan quickly.
To search in Live View:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist™ portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Select the site and the floorplan.
3. Click the search button at the top right corner of the floorplan.
4. Start typing the name of the item that you're looking for.
You can search the following items:
• AP name
• AP MAC address
110
• WiFi client name
• WiFi client MAC address
• SDK client name
• SDK client UUID
• BLE client name
• BLE client MAC
• Asset name
• Asset MAC address
• vBeacon name
• vBeacon UUID
• Third-party beacon name
• Third-party beacon UUID
• Zone name
As you start typing, the matching items appear in the drop-down list.
111
NOTE: The list displays only five elements for each category. A fraction in the top right
corner of the list indicates the total number of possible matches. For example, 5/7
indicates that the list displays 5 out of 7 items.
5. From the drop-down list, click the item that you want to see on the floorplan.
The item is now highlighted on the floorplan and is also selected in the list on right side of the page.
Troubleshoot Location Services Using the RF
Environment
In your Juniper Mist network, you can use the RF Environment (also known as RF Glasses) for
troubleshooting location accuracy issues. This tool helps you gain insight into what is going on with Mist
SDK-enabled clients and named assets.
Video Demo
Video: Modern RF Glasses
Steps
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Live View.
2. Click the site and the floorplan that you want to troubleshoot.
3. Adjust the page settings to show the app clients:
a. Click the Settings button (near the top right corner of the page).
112
b. In the Location Settings window, select the Show App Clients and Show App Clients (Cellular)
check boxes.
c. Click X to close the Location Settings window.
The floorplan displays any clients that are running the Juniper Mist SDK.
4. Select a client and record the RF environment:
a. Select the Clients tab on the right side of the page, and then select the client that you want to
troubleshoot.
b. Click RF Environment (near the bottom right corner of the page).
113
NOTE: The RF Environment link is available only for SDK clients, named assets, and
connected wireless clients.
c. Click Record Session (near the top right corner of the page).
• Your session begins recording. A progress bar appears at the top of the screen.
• In the Rename Session window, you can rename the session recording or close the window to
keep the current date and time as the session name.
• When finished, click Stop Recording.
114
NOTE: If you do not stop the recording manually by clicking the button, the
recording stops automatically after three minutes.
5. Replay the recording:
a. From the left menu, select Location > RF Environment Replay.
b. From the Recorded Sessions list, click the session you just recorded.
You will see your recording. You can use it to gain an understanding of the current issues,
troubleshoot, or send to customer support for review.
Troubleshooting Tips
When troubleshooting in the RF Environment, pay attention to these elements:
• Smoothed Location Estimate
The lime green colored dot represents the smoothed location estimate. (See the Legend in the top
right corner of the page.) This estimate takes the received signal strength indicator (RSSI) data and
smooths it out for accuracy and user readability.
• Beams and Beacons
On the right side of the page, see how many access points (APs) the client detects. Look at:
• Beams per second
115
• Beacons per beam per second
These RSSI values come from the AP from the client’s perspective. They indicate how many APs the
client detects and the number of beams the client detects from the AP.
• Speed and Direction
On the right side of the page, Speed and Direction are updated as the client moves within the site.
• When the client is in motion, the probability surface spreads out.
• As the client slows down or becomes still, the probability surface shrinks.
• The red area depicts the peak of the surface and the highest probability of the client's location.
• The blue area depicts the lowest area of the surface and the least probability of the client's
location.
Keep in mind:
• With a lower-than-average number of beams per second or beacons per beam per second, location
accuracy might deteriorate.
• If the RSSI values are not updated for SDK clients, the client is offline.
• If the RSSI values are not updated for assets, data from the tag is not detected.
• If the RSSI values are missing, the environment has less data to work with. Less data means that
location accuracy might deteriorate. If you notice missing RSSI values:
• Check the organization settings to ensure that vBLE Engagement is enabled. See "Enable
Bluetooth Based Location Services" on page 21.
• Check the Access Points page to ensure that the vBLE array is turned on for all APs. See "Verify
and Enable the vBLE Array" on page 116.
• Ensure that the AP has been added to the floorplan. See "Floorplan Setup Overview" on page 30.
Verify and Enable the vBLE Array
SUMMARY
116
Troubleshoot location issues by verifying that virtual Bluetooth Low Energy (vBLE) array is enabled
on your access points (APs).
Go to the Access Points page to verify that vBLE is enabled for all APs. If you see an X in the vBLE
column, the vBLE array is off and needs to be turned on.
To enable the vBLE array on an access point:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Access Points.
2. Check the vBLE column to see if any APs need to have vBLE enabled.
3. To enable vBLE for an AP:
a. Click the AP.
b. Under BLE Settings, select the Enable Virtual BLE Array check box.
c. Click Save.
Check Your Site's Beam Density Coverage
SUMMARY
117
Troubleshoot location issues by using the Beam Density Map to find weak spots in your BLE
coverage.
On the Location Diagnostics page of the Juniper Mist portal, you have the option to view “coverage” on
the Beam Density Map. This map displays color coding to indicate how much coverage a Mist Access
Point (AP) is providing a device based on the device's proximity to the AP. This color coding is based on
the Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) that the device sends to the AP. The RSSI values are based
on the device’s coordinate (X,Y) location estimate.
To view the Beam Density Coverage Map:
1. From the left menu of the Juniper Mist portal, select Location > Location Diagnostics.
2. Click Beam Density Map (near the top center of the page).
3. Ensure that you have the appropriate site and floorplan selected:
4. Click Coverage.
On the map, you have the option to view coverage for App (Mist SDK Mobile App clients), BLE
(named assets), and WiFi (unconnected and connected WiFi clients). Select the device type from the
drop-down list to view the coverage for that device type on the map. The App device type is the only
device type that has the Beam Density option available in addition to Coverage.
You can choose to view All clients (selected by default), or you can select a specific client from the
drop-down list (the options that appear depend on the device type that you select).
118
You can also select a time range for which to view coverage. For example, if you would like to see
coverage from the past hour, you can select “1 hour”.
5. Notice the RSSI color scale in the top left corner of the page. Use this as your reference as you look
at the coverage on the map. RSSI values closer to zero indicate that the device is in closer proximity
to the APs.
6. Hover your mouse over a device on the map to see the average and maximum RSSI values.
The values appear to the left of the color scale.
119
Troubleshoot the Juniper Mist SDK
SUMMARY
Explore these options to resolve issues with your SDK-enabled applications.
This topic provides information about how to troubleshoot common issues when you develop and test
your Juniper Mist™ Software Development Kit (SDK).
NOTE: If you need general information about the SDK, see "Juniper Mist SDK" on page
100.
To build a customer-facing application using the Juniper Mist SDK, your system must meet the following
requirements:
• iOS System Requirements
• Android System Requirements
Prior to troubleshooting, ensure that you are using the correct API callbacks:
• iOS: didUpdateRelativeLocation
• Android: onRelativeLocationUpdated
To troubleshoot the SDK, identify the potential issue and then apply the recommended remedy:
120
Table 12: SDK Issues and Remedies
Potential Issue Remedy
For iOS devices only: You receive
SDK errors, or you cannot
develop and test the project on
the simulator. (Testing requires a
Juniper Mist SDK-enabled device
on which to run the SDK.)
NOTE: This issue applies only
to iOS devices.
Use the following sample app and sample code to run the project on the
simulator:
Sample App (iOS only)
Sample Code (iOS only)
The floorplan doesn’t load, the
blue dot is inaccurate, or the app
doesn't work when you run it on
a simulator.
1. Confirm that the X,Y placement of the access points (APs) on the floorplan
matches the physical placement of the APs in your deployment.
See Manually Place an Access Point on a Floorplan.
2. Scale the floorplan accurately. See Scale a Floorplan.
3. Ensure that you are running the SDK on a device.
4. Ensure that you enabled Bluetooth permission on the device.
5. Ensure that the Mobile SDK secret is correct.
The blue dot is not accurate. 1. Confirm that you are using the latest version of the SDK.
To get the latest version, click the relevant link:
• Juniper Mist Location SDK Android latest version
• Juniper Mist Location SDK iOS latest version
2. Ensure that you placed your APs according to the deployment guidelines.
See "AP Placement for Location Services" on page 9.
3. Collect RF Environment recordings—specifically, the Received Signal
Strength Indicator (RSSI) values—to see if the SDK receives a strong
enough signal. See "Troubleshoot Location Services Using the RF
Environment " on page 112.
Juniper Mist cannot receive
virtual beacon notifications.
1. Confirm that you placed the virtual beacons on the floorplan accurately.
2. Ensure that the Name, Message, and Url fields are complete.
121
Table 12: SDK Issues and Remedies (Continued)
Potential Issue Remedy
Juniper Mist cannot receive zone
notifications.
1. Confirm that you placed the zones on the floorplan accurately.
2. Ensure that the zone has a name. See these topics:
• "Add Location Zones to a Floorplan" on page 47
• "Add Proximity Zones to a Floorplan" on page 51
The SDK returns invalid latitude
and longitude values.
To resolve this issue, follow the steps in "Troubleshoot Incorrect Latitude and
Longitude (SDK)" on page 122.
Troubleshoot Incorrect Latitude and Longitude
(SDK)
SUMMARY
Go through these steps if the SDK returns invalid latitude and longitude values.
Prior to troubleshooting, ensure that you are using the correct API Callbacks:
• iOS: didUpdateRelativeLocation
• Android: onRelativeLocationUpdated
To troubleshoot incorrect latitude and longitude:
1. In the Juniper Mist™ portal, open the floorplan, click Add VBeacon, and then drag the virtual beacon
(vBeacon) to any point on the floorplan.
Select a position that you can easily identify later when looking at your site on Google Maps or Apple
Maps. For example, drag the vBeacon to a corner of the building.
122
NOTE: If you need general information about adding vBeacons, see "Add Virtual
Beacons to a Floorplan" on page 54.
2. Copy and save the X and Y values, which appear near the lower-right corner of the page. Both the
values should be positive. In case of negative values, remove the negative signs from them.
3. Drag the vBeacon to a new, identifiable position and save the X and Y values. Then, repeat this step
for one more point on the floorplan.
You should now have the X and Y values for three identifiable points on the floorplan.
4. Click Cancel so that you do not save the vBeacon.
5. Close the floorplan.
6. In Google Maps or Apple Maps, complete these steps to get the latitude and longitude values for the
points that you selected on the floorplan:
a. Go to the map location for your site, and zoom in.
b. For each point that you selected on your floorplan, click the corresponding point on the Google
Map or Apple Map, and save the latitude and longitude values.
As shown in the following illustration, the points on the map need to correspond to the points
that you select on your floorplan:
123
For more information, go to the support site for Google Maps or Apple Maps.
Suggested topics:
• Google Support topic (See the information about about getting the coordinates of a place.)
• Apple Toolbox topic (See the instructions about dropping a pin and getting the information.)
NOTE: The links are suggestions only. For up-to-date information, search the Google
or Apple support site.
After completing the preceding steps, you should have the latitude and longitude values for the same
three points that you identified on your floorplan.
7. Go to the GeoRefParamv2 payload, add the latitude and longitude values that you just obtained, and
check the sample payload. See the following sample payload.
The following values match the coordinates shown:
• lat_lon X value—This is the latitude coordinate.
• lat_lon Y value—This is the longitude coordinate.
"GeoRefParamsv2": { 
        "active": true, 
        "p1": { 
            "mist_xy": { 
                "x": 13.4194,
                "y": 39.2581 
124
            }, 
            "lat_lon": { 
                "x": 37.29546,
                "y": -122.03323 
            } 
        }, 
        "p2": { 
            "mist_xy": { 
                "x": 23.3224,
                "y": 67.2408 
            }, 
            "lat_lon": { 
                "x": 37.29512,
                "y": -122.03306 
            } 
        }, 
        "p3": { 
            "mist_xy": { 
                "x": 52.3277,
                "y": 75.7614 
            }, 
            "lat_lon": { 
                "x": 37.29506,
                "y": -122.03269 
            } 
        } 
    } 
8. Add the PUT request for the GeoRefParamv2 payload into the maps API. /api/v1/sites/:siteID/
maps/:mapID
By default, the SDK returns invalid latitude and longitude values if the GeoRefParams is not
configured in the maps API.
Additional Troubleshooting
If the SDK encounters an error, it calls the didErrorOccur method, as follows:
didErrorOccur(_ withError:,withErrorMessage). 
The SDK displays details of the errors in the following two values:
• errorMessage of type NSString
125
• errorType of type ErrorType Enum
For help, see the Integration Steps section of the Github Wiki.
iOS SDK Github Wiki
Android SDK Github Wiki
Marvis Client and Location Services Integration for
Troubleshooting
SUMMARY
Read this topic to better understand the benefits of
the integration between Marvis Client and Location
Services and how it can assist with troubleshooting.
IN THIS SECTION
Benefits of the Marvis Client and Location
Services Integration | 126
WHAT's NEXT | 127
Marvis Client enables you to view data about client experiences with regards to wireless connectivity
from the device's perspective. In other words, it provides insight into how your device interacts with and
experiences the wireless network. This enables you to gain a better understanding of client behavior and
any potential issues on the network. The Marvis Client works with Location Services by coordinating
with the Access Points' (APs) vBLE antenna array and on-device vBLE capabilitlies to create some
powerful benefits, outlined below.
Benefits of the Marvis Client and Location Services Integration
• The Marvis Client now includes on-device location awareness via on-device vBLE location. This
enables Marvis Client to provide enhanced visibility into the wireless network.
• Enhances network visibility, user experience, and troubleshooting.
• For example, you can navigate to the floorplan in the Mist portal to use real-time location with
client telemetry. This enables you to see where and when an issue occured for the Wi-Fi client's
applications, or to see any Wi-Fi issues being faced. On the floorplan, for example, a cluster of
Wi-Fi clients in a single area experiencing coverage issues may indicate a Coverage Hole issue.
126
• Provides context-aware location insights (for example, location insights for handheld Zebra devices
used in warehouse settings).
• Contextual insights into traffic flow and occupancy based on device movement and location trends.
• Provides a device location accuracy of 1-3-meters.
WHAT's NEXT
See the Marvis Client chapter of the Juniper Mist AI-Native Operations Guide to learn more about
Marvis Client.
Other Troubleshooting Tips for Location Services
SUMMARY
If other troubleshooting efforts haven't resolve your location issues, consider these tips about
what to check and how to improve location accurcy.
The majority of location accuracy issues come from an incorrect access point (AP) setup. Ensure that the
AP information on the floorplan of the Juniper Mist portal matches the APs in the physical deployment.
After reviewing the issues and remedies below, we highly recommend that you refer to "Troubleshoot
Location Services Using the RF Environment " on page 112.
Table 13: Other SDK Issues and Remedies
Potential Issue Remedy
Significantly small or large
movements occur on a
floorplan.
Scale. Scale the floorplan accurately. See Scale a Floorplan.
TIP: If you don’t know the actual dimensions, look for a standard door on the
floorplan and scale that door to 0.91 meters (3 feet). This will get you close to
the actual scale.
127
Table 13: Other SDK Issues and Remedies (Continued)
Potential Issue Remedy
An unexpected jump to
another area of the floorplan
(also known as “teleporting”).
Placement. Confirm that the X,Y placement of the APs on the floorplan matches
the physical placement of the APs in your deployment.
See Manually Place an Access Point on a Floorplan.
An inaccuracy with the client’s
or asset’s location; for
example, the client’s or asset’s
location appears on the
opposite side of the AP (also
known as the location being
“flipped”).
Rotation. Confirm that the AP’s LED is facing the same direction in which the
green dot is facing on the floorplan.
See Manually Place an Access Point on a Floorplan.
Other unspecified issues Height. Ceiling height of APs can also play a part in location-accuracy issues.
For any issues you may be experiencing, refer to "AP Placement for Location
Services" on page 9 to ensure that you have proper coverage.
If your deployment calls for installing APs outside of these guidelines, contact
support@mist.com to consult with a sales engineer.
128